But President George Bush has said the Marines will not step ashore until an African peacekeeping force enforces a ceasefire.
"The government also bears responsibility, also has to declare a cease-fire, also has to stop a series of hostilities against society," Garcia said.
"The Lusaka ceasefire no longer applies.
They (the rebels and hardline parties) which did not sign the agreement do not have a good reason for not signing (the cease-fire).
It also underlined the urgency for deployment of the "African Mission" to supervise the ceasefire and called on all signatories and non-signatories to reach a technical agreement on forces before the Mission's arrival.
`It is a matter of trying to convince our soldiers to keep the ceasefire.
These violations have mainly been due to lack of supervision of the cease-fire.
Ahead of a debate on the subject that attracted more than 60 speakers, the Council unanimously adopted resolution 2016 (2013), by which it urged the inclusion of sexual violence in the definition of acts prohibited by ceasefires and in ceasefire-monitoring agreements.
Mandela will brief leaders of the Great Lakes region on the progress made in the negotiations at a summit to be held at a later date after the ceasefire talks, Bomani said, adding that it was unlikely the summit would be held this month.
Numerous attempts at brokering cease-fires behind the scenes have failed.
[Radio France Internationale (Paris, in French 0900 gmt 6 Oct 97) reported that the operation launched by the army against the Casamance rebels was "without precedent since the 1995 cease-fire.
The continued arrival of hundreds more African Union forces tasked with monitoring a shaky ceasefire and restoring security to Darfur would improve the situation, with AU forces able to escort aid convoys into volatile areas, Pronk added.
Attending the meeting, the minister of state for foreign affairs, Amama Mbabazi, told delegates to the commission that the restraint on the part of the warring parties in the DRC is a clear indication that all are committed to the cease-fire agreement.
Speaking to journalists as he arrived at Maputo's City Hall for the Southern African Development Community [SADC] leaders'summit, he said it was sad that these forces now had to sign a cease-fire for a war they waged in another sovereign country.
They also asked both parties to the conflict to immediately enter into a truce.
We have a broken ceasefire.
"Existing ceasefire arrangements do not envisage such operations in a war zone, and consequently the Saharawi army must carefully consider its position and response if these inflammatory activities proceed," SADR said on Wednesday.
Now they are under a lot of pressure, it would be very easy to say 'don't talk to us about the conflict, we have a ceasefire',".
The team, which includes representatives of the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD), the EU, and the Arab League is in the country to observe the effectiveness of the ceasefire agreement signed by the Somali parties participating in the peace conference being held in Kenya.
The rocket attack, the second since the cease-fire took effect, led to a call for retaliation by Israel's foreign minister while Palestinians charged that the continued closure of crossings violated terms of the cease-fire.
Although a ceasefire has held, a promised referendum to let the people of the former Spanish colony choose between independence or integration with Morocco, has been blocked in a row over who can vote.
He added: "We are all trying to achieve a ceasefire."
[Vignon] And on this point, is Ecomog [ECOWAS Cease-fire Monitoring Group] equipped for this mission?
According to Zuma, Burundi rebels are still reluctant to agree to a cease-fire despite the ongoing negotiations.
Mr. Choi heads the UN Operation in Cote d'Ivoire (UNOCI), which was set up in 2004 to help ensure a ceasefire and pave the way for permanent peace and democratic elections.
Col Kokolo yesterday denied a claim from the MLC that it had killed 800 government soldiers and sunk three of their river boats in northern Equateur on Thursday, arguing instead that the government offensive had successfully repelled the rebels to positions they held before last year's unsuccessful Lusaka ceasefire plan.
*** It is encouraging that, courtesy of the matatu owners and police ceasefire, no sight of an uninsured, rust-bucket of a civilian Land Rover recovery vehicle will ruin your mood.
My forces are observing the ceasefire.
But CNDD-FDD, one of Burundi's two main rebel groups, was not prepared to negotiate a ceasefire until the government freed all political prisoners and dismantled "Nazi-type concentration camps" around the country, Nhido said.
The peacekeepers have orders to fight to enforce a truce, if need be.
Kwabena Agyepong told IRIN that representatives of Taylor and the rebel groups would discuss ceasefire agreements at Akuse while the other 17 political parties would converge at Akosombo to attempt to reach a consensus on the conduct of free and fair elections in their country.
Mr. Kiir and Mr. Machar have signed and then broken several previous cease-fire deals, threatening to turn the once promising oil-rich nation into a broken state.
The Security Council should prepare a peacekeeping mission to monitor the ceasefire and help establish an interim administration, and make standby arrangements for a more robust multinational force if the ceasefire collapses.
However, there some reports that the ceasefire had not been honoured to the letter despite last week's release of some politicians aligned to Dr Machar.
The accord contains no provision for a cease-fire, and Hutu rebels have refused to endorse it until their demands, including release of political prisoners and renegotiating the political deal, are met.
"To ensure the cease-fire holds, it was agreed the sporadic shelling be ignored," he added.
We already welcomed this local cease-fire, the main and undisputed result of which was the saving of human lives and a noticeable improvement of the humanitarian situation in this city of a million people.
Forty-one violations [of the ceasefire] over the past 24 hours and two servicemen wounded," Eduard Basurin told reporters.
The government and rebels still appeared far apart on the more substantial issue of a cease-fire.
Mr. Museveni faces re-election early next year with opposition to his three-decade rule mounting among young voters and some critics say his decision was influenced by domestic political pressure rather than being a reflection of the truce.
"It would grant authority for peacekeepers to support a cease-fire and to provide a secure environment for humanitarian deliveries, and it would declare the council's readiness to move rapidly to establish a follow-on UN stabilization force that could take over," he said.
Sri Lanka improved from Not Free to Partly Free as the ceasefire agreement between the government and the Tamil Eelam rebel group increased the range of permissible coverage and press access to areas formerly under rebel control.
Meanwhile, the rebels have said there's no reason to stop fighting absent a government cease-fire.
"What is needed now is UN peacekeepers to deploy in full force urgently and enforce a ceasefire in Mogadishu.
Mediators have outlined steps that need to be taken to make the truce work, but the parties have not signed up because of the Uganda dispute.
It foresees delegates from different countries jointly monitoring the eastern borders of DRC and the ceasefire lines.
There has been an "enormous improvement" in the disarmament rate and ceasefire violations have ended because Kono chiefs and elders had joined UNAMSIL Deputy Force Commander Maj-Gen Martin Agwai on his daily visits to supervise the process, she said.
A final and comprehensive ceasefire was to have been signed last month.
So I don't think we get there right away, but the U.S. goal right now would be to make sure that the cease-fire holds, that Gaza can begin the process of rebuilding, and that some measures are taken so that the people of Gaza feel some sense of hope, and the people of Israel feel confident that they're not going to have a repeat of the kind of rocket launches that we've seen over the last several weeks.
These included "the withdrawal of heavy weapons from the line of contact, the complete implementation of the ceasefire and access to the OSCE's special observer mission".
It was said during the meeting that we would discuss the text of the cease-fire, then the implementation details, then we would start on the negotiations' agenda which we had handed in.
He called for a two-week cease-fire between those trading insults.
Karaha added the ceasefire appeared to be holding.
UNHCR is again appealing for a ceasefire and the establishment of humanitarian corridors which would allow the civilian population to escape the fighting and enable aid workers to resume deliveries of humanitarian assistance.
They also expressed confidence in the full implementation of the agreement in the coming year, which calls for the deployment of observers and the disarmament of rebel armed forces as well as a cease-fire.
During a ceasefire the CNDD said it would accept to join negotiations on a political settlement.
Yet Paris pursued its role as a negotiator in a renewed civil war and maintained that the ceasefire negotiations were the solution.
Despite the truce, attempts to negotiate a lasting peace between rebels, led by a former armed forces commander, and the government have so far made little headway.
Numerous past cease-fires have failed, however.
The United Self-Defense Forces, the paramilitary umbrella group known as the AUC, suspended disarmament talks last month to protest the jailing of a top commander accused of ordering the murder of a state congressman in violation of a cease-fire agreement.
The rebels have accused Kabila of trying to escalate the war, saying there was no chance of a quick ceasefire while Kabila refused to talk to them.
The radio said parliament should endorse a draft peace agreement approved recently by the government before the two sides start talks on a ceasefire.
If Putin is saying that there are no Russians in Ukraine, and that they did not discuss cease- fire but he would consider discussing terms of a cease-fire, wouldn't that infer there would be -- I'll move on.
Mr Annan urged leaders of ECOWAS (Economic Community of West African States) to press for the ceasefire agreement to be strictly observed.
"We remain cautiously optimistic that we will be able to get a ceasefire," he told Reuters in Abidjan.
Serpa Uribe said key topics on the agenda were Government demands that rebels release hostages, call a ceasefire and respect human rights.
The ECOWAS force has a mandate to enforce a ceasefire and create conditions for the establishment of an interim government to hold elections within a year.
"For the United Nations, the ONUSAL model was key in helping our Organization move away from traditional peacekeeping - which focused on monitoring ceasefires - and toward an integrated, multi-dimensional approach.
The government says that the latest rebel truce violation was on October 30.
There was no immediate word on the expected arrival of his guerrilla commanders, who had insisted on meeting their leader as a condition for a ceasefire in their armed campaign.
Roughly 10,000 U.N. and French peacekeepers have been monitoring a shaky cease-fire line.
Moreover, we expect them to refrain from anything which could undermine the agreements reached today in the particularly delicate phase before the ceasefire enters into force," he said.
"There should be a cease-fire," Mandela said after the four-hour meeting.
1971 - Soviet Union, at U.N. Security Council, vetoes resolution calling for cease-fire in hostilities between India and Pakistan over Kashmir.
But a cease-fire could produce a lull in the violence, presuming that the drug gangs would return to a prior observance of noncombatant immunity, and allow Mexico a national respite to recover from its losses, consolidate its forces and concentrate its efforts on reconstituting the security and government institutions that have failed so demonstrably.
[SECOND BUSH ACT] I assured him the United States will work closely with ECOWAS and the United Nations to maintain the cease-fire and to enable a peaceful transfer of power.
The Colombian government is trying to negotiate the demobilization of the largest paramilitary group, the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia, or AUC, but accuses it of regularly violating a cease-fire.
The accord contains no provision for a cease-fire, and Hutu rebels have refused to endorse it until their demands -including release of political prisoners and renegotiating the political deal -are met.
-- Stephanie Pomboy Ceasefire Relief?
But some world human rights groups have criticized the Colombian government's strategy for demobilizing paramilitary forces, citing cases that the paramilitaries failed to meet their commitment for a ceasefire.
That package for a cease-fire proposed by the Lebanese government would include a beefed up international peacekeeping presence here in Lebanon, but there are reservations for Hezbollah about that.
They were deployed in 2003 to oversee a ceasefire between the rebels, who held the north of the former French colony following an attempted 2002 coup against President Laurent Gbagbo, and the government troops who held the south.
He said he hoped for an "immediate ceasefire to give these people a chance to restructure their lives".
Pacts and ceasefires aimed at ending the two-year conflict in Africa's third largest country have come and gone, with violations often reported within days of signatures being inked.
They (the rebels and hardline parties) which did not sign the agreement do not have a good reason for not signing (the cease-fire).
The Hutu rebels have so far refused to sign up to a ceasefire to end the civil war that has claimed an estimated 200,000 lives, mostly of them civilian, since it began in 1993.
The CFC Headquarters is located in El-Fashir and is responsible for coordinating investigations, verifications, monitoring and reporting compliance, in accordance with the Humanitarian Ceasefire Agreement and the Implementation Modalities.
The armies' role, he said, was to supervise a "ceasefire" to create the environment for a negotiated settlement of the Sumanga "crisis".
And then the second piece is over the course of the last 10 days and even the last 48 hours there's been continued, building international support for a cease-fire, concern about the civilian causalities we're seeing, concern about the ongoing rocket fire, and those are all factors that have contributed to the point we led to last night.
There was no immediate comment from the government or the military on RUF's charges of ceasefire violations.
He said after 20 years of fighting the government and rebels were on the verge of agreeing how to better enforce a ceasefire and how to share the country's wealth.
However, US President George W. Bush maintains that he will only deploy American troops once a ceasefire is in place and regional peacekeepers are on the scene.
"The armed forces will observe the comprehensive ceasefire as of today if the rebels respond to General al-Bashir's ceasefire initiative and leave their stubbornness of a partial ceasefire," SUNA quoted army spokesman Lieutenant General Mohamed Osman Yassin as saying.
Political sources close to the Darod factions cautioned that the truce was tenuous and could break down because of poor discipline among fighters, many of whom are nomads and armed youths.
"I hope that that ceasefire will hold," Obasanjo told reporters after talks with British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
A three-month-old ceasefire and plans to deploy a large United Nations buffer force in the Central African nation, formerly known as Zaire, now appear to be in tatters.
Oscar Santamaria, chief delegate of the rightist government, reacted coolly to a rebel call for a short-term truce aimed at smoothing the path toward a lasting cease-fire, saying it was not on the talks agenda and would only serve to cloud negotiations.
In Paris, Booth reportedly pushed the SRF leaders to accept Bashir's offer of a ceasefire and outline some sort of plan of how they would like to see the conflicts in the country ending.
Blair told reporters that the African monitoring forces must be expanded by sending thousands of troops to ensure ceasefire agreement and access of true information on the situation in Darfur.
"The two leaders called upon the United Nations to fully deploy MONUC (the UN observer mission in the DRC) observers to support the Lusaka ceasefire agreement," read a statement issued after the two presidents met here.
There is a cease-fire, but it is not forever.
He pointed out that the politicians talked about the need for a ceasefire, disarmament of all "belligerent" forces and the deployment of an international stabilization force.
"Less violations of the ceasefire show that all countries are committed to ending the crisis there," Silwamba said.
"I think there has been a general erosion of the Lusaka ceasefire and we are very concerned about it," Holbrooke said.
Millington, who just returned from Machakos, said the government and the SPLA had been due to start discussions about a comprehensive ceasefire Sunday in presence of US, British and Norwegian military experts.
Since then, fighting has flared up on several fronts, and a dozen cease-fire monitors from the Organization of African Unity and their U.N. assistants have been unable to deploy along the frontlines.
Further, more women professionals should be inducted into the security and justice sectors and should sit at the table where decisions were being made on peace and ceasefire accords, peacekeeping, stabilization and reconstruction.
He urged the Council to immediately deploy MONUC observers, who would be able to identify and verify parties that break the ceasefire, thereby enabling the Council to impose costs on those bent on pursuing the military option.
"We consider this as a positive evolution and as a first step towards a possible ceasefire and the possible opening of talks between all parties in the conflict," said Hubert Cooreman, a spokesman for the Foreign Office.
But the forces would only be sent into the former Zaire if all the parties in the 19-month conflict guarantee they will respect the ceasefire.
The security official said the rebels planned to decide on representation to the Joint Military Commission (JMC) - a body mandated by the Lusaka agreement to oversee the now fragile ceasefire.
A statement issued at the end of a three-day meeting said after discussing numerous reports of cease-fire violations from both sides, the political committee approved a disengagement plan that had previously been adopted by military leaders.
The single most burning issue is the need for a binding ceasefire to stop the bloodshed and facilitate a peaceful resolution of the conflict."
Despite initial breaches, the ceasefire held for the rest of the year, although tensions intensified in the West Bank, briefers reported, with the shooting of a Jewish activist and deaths from car attacks on a light rail station, an assault on a synagogue, violent clashes, housing demolitions and vandalism at places of worship, and new settlement planning.
supervising the ceasefire, and supervising the identification of those entitled to participate in the referendum in the Sahara, which is a process that has reached an impasse, and failed for some time.
"After the unsuccessful attempt to capture Byumba town, we went into concealment during the peace talks and had to utilize the ceasefire to go back to the drawing board and adopt new tactics.
After four years of war in Syria, in which more than 220,000 have been killed - many with chemical weapons the council endorsed a plan not to intervene to prevent further slaughter but simply to encourage President Bashar al-Assad to negotiate with non-terrorist rebel groups on a possible ceasefire and elections.
"We call for an immediate ceasefire and the opening of talks under the mediation of the African Union high representative," he said.
Serbia ceasefire NATO special envoy Pieter Feith resumed efforts to reach a ceasefire between ethnic Albanian guerrillas and Serbian officials in Serbia's Presevo Valley bordering Kosovo.
QUESTION: Secretary Rice, as you are aware, Hamas yesterday said it was unilaterally ending its ceasefire in Gaza after six months.
"We should lose no time in ensuring that the cease-fire takes place," Mandela said Monday.
The United Nations observer mission tried again on Saturday to broker a new ceasefire.
Violence by the sect continued    unabated just as the sect in a video, eventualy denied that there was no ceasefire deal between it and the government.
In the past the MFDC has signed several ceasefires which all collapsed.
Compliance with the peace agreement led to a perfectly observed cease-fire, in contrast to countries such as Angola, Timor-Leste, Iraq, Afghanistan, and others that relapsed into conflict.
Cease-fire meant the insurgents "must withdraw from the capital Monrovia altogether," Brown said.
While the maras declared a ceasefire two years ago, the violence has hardly died down.
This means they want a ceasefire on their terms.
Verification of the ceasefire would be paramount to the process, according to President Uribe, who has long accused the FARC of presenting a deliberate double discourse of publicly declaring willingness for a peace process while continuing to carry out its campaign of violence.
For the past two months, interim president Michel Djotidia has been negotiating a ceasefire with Kony, the leader of guerilla group Lord's Resistance Army who is wanted by the International Criminal Court for alleged war crimes.
However, on July 30, from Nairobi, NRM External Affairs secretary Mathew Rukikaire issued a press statement denying any ceasefire or peace talks engagement with the Military Council.
After two years of relative calm in El Salvador thanks to the controversial truce, President Sanchez Ceren takes the reins with homicides on the rise.
The peacekeepers, to include 250 military observers and 1,000 police, are to enforce a ceasefire between government forces and two rebel groups.
A peace deal will nevertheless take a military form (ceasefire) before it goes political.
But while the largest rebel group says it is prepared to call a halt to the conflict, it has warned that the truce may be short-lived unless President Laurent Kabila agrees to major political reforms.
The goal was to obtain a cease-fire between the Contras and Sandinistas and a clear timetable for political reforms.
Zinni reported to Assistant Secretary of State William Burns there was "some headway" toward a cease-fire, said a U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Al-Anbaa's report said the government was pulling out of the talks because the rebels had repeatedly violated a cease-fire agreement.
Africa Action's petition calls on Powell to take the following three immediate steps to address the crisis in Darfur: (1) Declare the atrocities occurring in Darfur to be "genocide" and take appropriate action as mandated by the Genocide Convention; (2) Bring to bear the unique intelligence capacity of the US to track the militias' activities in Darfur as well as the movements of the displaced; (3) Mobilize some of the almost 2,000 U.S. troops in nearby Djibouti to lead a multinational force to secure the region, facilitate humanitarian assistance, and to enforce the cease-fire until a UN peacekeeping force can be assembled.
The U.N. and government representatives helped negotiate a cease-fire, but smaller skirmishes have broken out between the two sides in other northern areas at least three soldiers and two civilians have died in clashes that began Friday.
MINURSO's mandate included the monitoring of the ceasefire between-Morocco and the Polisario Front-and organising a referendum on the territory.
What is expected it is not a cease-fire; it is the end of all military activities by the M23.
However, both sides have accused the other of violating the cease-fire and have yet to agree on the allocation of positions in an interim administration and how wealth and resources should be shared.
Both sides have since accused the other of breaking the truce.
"We can't blame either side alone for ceasefire violations.
Last week, the rebels said they were willing to consider cease-fire talks with the government, but warned they would intensify their military campaign if Taylor's government rejected their offer.
That was why the most important element of the ceasefire was not just establishment of the coalition government, a purely transitional arrangement, but the raft of reforms outlined that are crucial if Kenya is to resolve its eternal conflicts and build a lasting, stable, prosperous democracy.
After the IRA ceasefire he started working for Tar Isteach, an organisation established to resettle IRA prisoners released early under the Good Friday agreement.
Buyoya had previously insisted the transition could begin only after a ceasefire -- discreet negotiations for which have been going on for several months -- was agreed with the rebel groups.
Al-Anbaa said: "Mohamed Bashir Suleiman, the official spokesman of the armed forces, reaffirmed the commitment of the armed forces to the ceasefire in Darfur."
That is what all politicians should do because without a cease-fire, nothing will be achieved.
Colombia's government was awaiting a response from the paramilitaries, whose cease-fire helped bring the country's homicide rate to a near two-decade low.
Fighting between rebel insurgents and government forces is continuing in the city, although the rebels say they are trying to establish a cease-fire.
The RCD rebels and Kabila's government have blamed each other for breaching the Lusaka ceasefire agreement.
Before breaking off, both sides had agreed on the agenda and the rules of procedure, but disagreed on the need to sign a cease-fire agreement.
That's despite a ceasefire between pro- Russian separatists and Ukrainian forces.
The tenuous ceasefire won by the Zapatistas' use of new technology hasn't stopped the violence dead, but Cleaver maintains that without their digital arsenal, the peasant army would have been crushed years ago.
This is an online cease-fire.
The genesis of Armistice can be traced back to a Coca-Cola ad, of all things.
Under the MOU, the parties agreed, among other things, to a countrywide ceasefire coinciding with the duration of the talks.
If Iraq formally accepts the resolution, a ceasefire comes into effect allowing the United Nations to move observers into a buffer zone between Kuwait and Iraq and thereby permitting the withdrawal of U.S. ground troops from southern Iraq.
Mr. Allen said the Government's acceptance of the ceasefire with the LURD rebels will also reinforce her capacity to lead the people under the democratic process which all Liberians subscribe to.
According to the resolution, the mandate of UNMIL, which was established for a period of 12 months, in addition to support for the ceasefire and the peace process, will include protection of United Nations staff and civilians, as well as support for humanitarian and human rights initiatives.
The Summit also called for "an immediate cease-fire, a troop stand-still and the initiation of a peaceful process of political dialogue aimed at finding a solution to all relevant problems..." according to the Summit communique made available to Mopheme by the Foreign Affairs Ministry.
It must go from a framework of imposition to one that generates agreements... the government also has responsibilities; it also has to declare a ceasefire; it also has to stop a series of hostilities against society," he warned.
At the moment, France has 4,000 troops in the West African country alongside forces from other African nations monitoring a ceasefire between government forces and rebels who launched an uprising in September 2002.
We have, of course, the issue of monitoring the cease-fire, and the cessation of hostility agreement.
After long talks to secure a cease-fire pact between the Burundi army and the rebels, Mandela announced last week that Burundi's 19 negotiating parties had agreed on a three-year transitional government leading to democratic elections.
Deadly fighting in Yemen escalates  Fierce fighting and airstrikes by a Saudi-led coalition pounded northern Yemen on Saturday, as the two main parties in the country's conflict continued to violate a cease-fire agreement and undermine already tenuous peace talks in Switzerland.
"What our country needs most is a ceasefire.
There were various ceasefire arrangements which do not hold for long.
H e was criticized for accepting the cease-fire while rebels still control the rich diamond towns.
Under the ceasefire agreement, Taylor was to have gone into exile to pave the way for an interim government and fresh elections to end the ruinous war.
The drugs allegedly belonged to Jose Alfredo Berrio, alias "el Aleman" or "The German," a right-wing warlord who has infuriated the main paramilitary umbrella group known as the United Self-Defense Forces, or AUC, by refusing to participate in a cease-fire and ongoing peace talks with President Alvaro Uribe.
"The ELN, when it signs the cease-fire, commits itself to release the people it is holding at this time and it commits itself during the period of the cease-fire not to carry out economically motivated abductions," Beltran said, adding that those pledges had been "on the table since the first day" of the talks.
Closed-door talks held by the ex-colonial power near Paris were briefly disrupted on Thursday as Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo's government accused rebels of breaking a truce by attacking loyalist positions at the western town of Blolequin.
"While any decision on such a force will inevitably be linked with progress in the political negotiations," the mission report said, "plans for deployment should be drawn up rapidly, since delay will risk renewed breakdowns of the cease-fire."
Outlook  It is too early to tell if the ceasefire will become  a reality and for how long it will last, especially since the intentions of both  parties remain linked to specific hidden political agendas.
"The RUF are people who are unpredictable so we don't need to jubilate but to observe and see if the ceasefire would work," shoolteacher Ansuma Turay said in a typical reaction.
The Cheonan's sinking was considered South Korea's worst military disaster since the Korean War, which ended in a cease-fire in 1953.
UK Foreign Secretary William Hague also welcomed the ceasefire and called for an "inclusive process of national reconciliation".
Since then both sides have traded allegations of ceasefire violations, none of which have yet been independently confirmed.
"As long as it doesn't involve a comprehensive ceasefire, which will be negotiated when the talks have resumed, we will agree to a cessation of hostilities during the talks," he said.
Rebels threatened to end a ceasefire and force Taylor's ouster if he doesn't abdicate the West African nation by tomorrow.
Given that peace agreements are frequently mere cease-fires representing short-term deals among elites, mediation and political engagement can assist the transformation of these deals into long-term commitments and inclusive national politics.
Mende said that the signing of the Lusaka cease-fire document has cost all of time, energy, as well as lots of human lives in the battle in Kisangani last week.
Many observers say a deal will be tough to reach until a ceasefire is in place.
Since the cease-fire, the movement has been largely limited to its original areas of influence in Chiapas.
The White House appealed to all of the warring forces to agree to an immediate cease-fire.
Battles started Monday after the breakdown of peace talks in Tokyo and the unraveling of a Dec. 9 cease-fire over the rebels' insistence on having independence.
And today's unaccustomed air of hope notwithstanding, negotiators on both sides agreed in interviews this week that the only real measure of goodwill would be compliance with the provisions of the cease-fire.
As a result, the commission could not yet undertake its verification missions - including examining accusations of truce violations made by Kabila's administration against the splintered rebel groups.
They will reinforce 2,500 French troops policing a ceasefire between the rebels and government, who on Thursday accused each other of instigating fresh fighting.
So, we'll see if in fact this cease-fire holds for the 72 hours and if they're actually even able to extend it through further negotiations which are supposed to take place in that time period in Cairo between all the parties.
There was no immediate response from the weak coalition government to the CNDD's ceasefire conditions.
A ceasefire "is a way to create trust and credibility," said Santos, who noted that Uribe had proposed last week that ELN call a ceasefire to begin peace talks.
Betancur was widely criticized for not heeding telephone pleas for a cease-fire from Alfonso Reyes, the Supreme Court president who died in the assault.
"We hope for a political solution to the conflict that will lead to an early ceasefire and end to hostilities," said a French Foreign Ministry official.
There they would put the AU plan, which involves an immediate ceasefire, to the opposition leaders.
The appointment of a third Cabinet minister from the region might also prompt Mr Maitha and Mr Balala to call a ceasefire to their raging, but quiet, war for Coast political supremacy.
But each side has since accused the other of violating the truce, and each has returned to the battlefield.
Peace talks While Kiir refuses to release detained politicians in exchange for a ceasefire and some more pre-conditions, Machar for the mean time has had an upper hand against him diplomatically at the IGAD sponsored peace talks in Addis.
A direction, Mahjoub Salek said, that has brought nothing to the population of the camps since the ceasefire.
His right-wing challenger, Norman Quijano of the National Republican Alliance, has declared that if he wins, the truce will be dead the day he takes office.
Both men after enjoying a drink or two and a game of ludo, signed an agreement pledging continued negotiations and respect for the cease-fire conditions.
If the mission manages to reinforce the ceasefire and if the warring parties redeploy to defensive positions, the U.N. will consider sending a larger peacekeeping force.
4 September 1998 08:03 Reuters News LBA English (c) 1998 Reuters Limited KAMPALA, September 4 (Reuters) - Uganda's parliament late on Thursday rejected a motion calling for a ceasefire and talks between the government and two rebel groups fighting to overthrow it.
So after the cease-fire, I moved to the liberated territory.
"The sooner President Taylor steps aside, the sooner an effective cease-fire can be established and the serious work can begin on creation of a transitional government and preparations for elections," said Andrew Mitchell, a spokesman for the State Department's bureau of African affairs.
ETA last week declared a permanent cease-fire, raising hopes that its violent 38-year campaign for an independent Basque state straddling the French-Spanish border was at an end.
Some reports have spoken of ceasefire breaches but neither side has said that the ceasefire has broken down.
Adherence to Cease-Fire WASHINGTON, June 24 - American officials said today that they had no information on how well the cease-fire was being observed.
While the paramilitaries press forward with the demobilizations, two leftist rebel groups that have been battling the government for 40 years have shunned appeals by the government to declare a cease-fire and start talks.
He offered a ceasefire and unconditional peace talks to the rebels, who stepped up their attacks in the West African country at the end of 1994 and have lately been attacking the heavily defended approaches to the capital.
Ramadan said it might take a while before the cease-fire order reached all units.
Mandela called for an immediate cease-fire and a withdrawal of all foreign troops.
Australian Peacekeeping Veteran Set to Head UN's Oldest Peacekeeping Mission New York, Nov 14 2006 3:00PM An Australian veteran of United Nations peacekeeping missions, Major-General Ian Campbell Gordon, is set to become Chief of Staff of the Jerusalem-based UN Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), the first such operation the world body set up almost 60 years ago.
But no cease-fire has been agreed.
With decisive military action against those who did not enter the peace process and those who broke the ceasefire.
At the march in Mexico City, most expressed exasperation of Calderon's strategy, perhaps taking a cue from Mr. Sicilia, who wrote an open letter to the government and to drug gangs lamenting "this badly planned, badly carried out, and badly led war" and suggesting a cease-fire be arranged with drug cartels.
But U.N. officials say they will not be deployed until a ceasefire can take hold.
The cease-fire call came in the form of a declaration issued on behalf of the participants.
In 2003, France brokered a ceasefire deal between the two sides.
Mr. Funes did say the government supported the church's efforts and transferred 30 gang leaders from a maximum-security prison to lower-security jails to facilitate the gangs' efforts to call a cease-fire.
LURD said in a statement it had called the ceasefire "with due respect to the international community and humanitarian concern", adding it would fully cooperate with peacekeepers.
Marvin Gonzales, 29, a spokesman of MS-13 in Ilopango, is one of 30 gang members operating a chicken farm - a showcase truce project attracting international attention for the city's mayor.
On Wednesday, LURD called for a unilateral cease-fire, but the fighting by LURD troops in Monrovia have never let up and, if anything, appears to be accelerating.
Restrepo had asked the ELN to agree to a temporary cease-fire ahead of Friday's talks, but the ELN refused, saying it will only halt its insurgency -- which includes deadly attacks on government troops and kidnapping for ransom -- if the two sides agree to formal peace talks.
The meeting Mandela missed in Pretoria on Thursday -- to explore a ceasefire -- was with Buyoya and the Forces for the Defence of Democracy, the biggest rebel group.
So the ceasefire can happen with the rebels, and that's the first agenda.
-- Associated Press --- ISRAEL Gaza Missile Launch Rattles Cross-Border Cease-Fire Gaza militants on Tuesday fired a rocket into Israel for the first time in three months, rattling a cross-border truce that had held since Israel's military offensive against the Hamas-run territory, a police spokesman said.
During his speech, External Relations Minister Dr Mustafa Uthman Isma' il called on the international community to bring pressure to bear on the [SPLA] movement to declare a comprehensive cease-fire.
Feb 13 (Interfax) - The future "special status" of Donbas will not be discussed before the top few points in Thursday's conflict settlement agreement such as ceasefire and withdrawal of heavy weapons from the frontline are implemented, said the head of the parliament of the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic.
Novelist Garca Mrquez brokers ceasefire talks in Havana between ELN and president's aides Colombia's second largest guerrilla group - the National Liberation Army (ELN) - announced on Monday that it is ready to begin talks "immediately" with the government of President lvaro Uribe in an attempt to bring an end to a decades-long armed conflict.
The programme states that banditry and terrorism must stop as a first step in the peace process, but it does not directly call for a ceasefire.
The United States has never been a backer, and other countries and international institutions hate using the word truce; they prefer talking of a process of violence-reduction instead.
Violence has fallen in Colombia thanks to the peace talks, although the government says the AUC has regularly broken the cease-fire.
Mbabazi said Uganda supports cease-fire and troops standstill.
He has also asked Secretary Powell to work with [U.N. General Secretary] Kofi Annan to make sure that we're doing all that we can on the diplomatic front to see that the cease-fire holds between the LURD/MODEL and the Government forces."
UPDF has done everything to ensure that harmony exists between the forces in Kisangani and the cease-fire is respected," Kavuma said yesterday.
In order to monitor the cease-fire prior to the arrival of ECOMOG and the United Nations observers (UNOMIL), a Joint Cease-fire Monitoring Committee was to be established comprising representatives from the three parties, ECOMOG and an advance team of the UN Observer Mission.
A ceasefire with the gang leaders, reached under the previous government, dampened the violence for a while.
He appealed to those political parties hesitating to join the peace process to embrace the cease-fire.
Both sides have accused each other of breaking the ceasefire.
The agreement specifies, "as soon as the cease-fire agreement is signed, the CNDD-FDD will become a political party according to the new law governing political parties, which will be promulgated by the transitional government.
The council called for a cease-fire and urged the two countries to withdraw their forces from the border, which overlooks key Red Sea shipping lanes.
Both have to be brought on board in the forthcoming Lusaka talks for a final resolution on cease-fire," Mbabazi said.
The minister also expressed hope that progress on major issues like a comprehensive cease-fire and question on the relationship between state and religion will be made.
How the truce is to be monitored and breaches punished remains to be agreed.
Unlike Uganda, which is fighting on government's side, a neutral IGAD force would ensure that both sides adhere to the terms of the cease-fire deal, according to analysts.
The Government has also brought to the attention of the Commission reports of violations of the ceasefire by the JEM and the SLM.
"The effective monitoring of the ceasefire between the parties by MINURSO over the last 13 years has been a major stabilizing and confidence-building achievement," he says.
As Somali Islamist and government delegates continue with peace talks in neighbouring Djibouti, former Inter-Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD) mediator Bethuel Kiplagat said an urgent ceasefire was need in Mogadishu.
It was the most serious clash of a more than two-month cease-fire in the capital.
He noted that a ceasefire was holding in most part of the country especially in the North, where the main rebel group, the Patriotic Movement of Cote d'Ivoire, was in control.
Despite numerous ceasefire agreements signed by the protagonists led by President Salva Kiir on the one hand and his former vice president Riek Machar on the other, the fighting remains as severe as ever, with serious human rights violations being committed by both sides.
On Monday, the DPR authorities accused the Ukrainian army of numerous ceasefire breaches along the entire line of contact in Donbas.
Will the latest cease-fire in the six-month-old conflict hold?
Their robust UN mandate will give them authority to intervene to protect civilians, prevent ceasefire violations and escort much-needed aid.
Both sides are standing off in a wary ceasefire on Mindanao island in the southern Philippines.
This prompted a Spanish source close to the Polisario to describe the military exercises as "blatant violation of the cease-fire concluded between the two sides".
(c) Recommend to the Security Council that standby arrangements be made for a multinational force to enforce the peace in the event that the ceasefire agreement breaks down.
Their current ceasefire ended on Thursday.
The Mission is staffed with 125 AU monitors now deployed in the field and has completed approximately 20 investigations of cease-fire violations.
"The question is - should we allow Kabila to continue violating the cease-fire?"
Spain: ETA cease-fire must be unconditional Madrid (EFE).- The Basque terrorist group ETA's announcement of a permanent, verifiable cease-fire is "insufficient," Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said, demanding that the armed separatist organization disband.
But lead government negotiator Nhial expressed concern about whether the opposition would be able to get its fighters to respect the terms of the ceasefire.
The refusal to agree to a cease-fire more than one week ago, along with the discovery of an extensive network of tunnels leading into Israel, triggered the Israeli ground assault and the determination of its government to achieve a twofold aim: Destroy the tunnels and degrade Hamas' arsenal to render it ineffective.
But they failed to agree on how the truce should be monitored.
The group ended a three-month-old cease-fire on Friday, although it has not reported any new attacks in the past three days.
I think what needs to be done, as the Liberian president is currently saying, is that there be a cease-fire immediately.
Issues still to be resolved in the peace process relate to a ceasefire and to the composition of a multi-party transitional government that is envisaged will rule Burundi for three years before democratic elections are held.
The witness testified that at State House, he heard Sam Bockarie on a BBC broadcast saying that he was not ready for a cease-fire, and instead was ordering Gullit to burn strategic areas of the capital and capture civilians.
International Affairs  Russia, China call for ceasefire and talks on Libya (Nhan dan, p.8).
"What we fear is that Kabila will observe the ceasefire at the frontlines, but will continue to bring the war to our rear bases in North and South Kivu," Mulumba said.
Apart from helping to implement ceasefire agreements, UNMIL was charged with the responsibility of protecting aid workers, supporting humanitarian activities, assisting in rebuilding the country through police training and restructuring the military.
We are going to continue the cease-fire," he said.
So far, there have been no reports of any ceasefire violations.
UNITED NATIONS (AP) _ The UN Security Council urged the two main rebel groups in Burundi Friday to negotiate a ceasefire without further delay.
He said his militia commanders were ready to implement an immediate cease-fire.
Annan said the cease-fire violations "shake the very foundations of the Accra peace talks."
They looked for the mediation of a military chaplain and they asked the government to create the right environment to ensure the ceasefire works and remains in place," said Funes, a former CNN correspondent who took office in 2009.
The force has been mandated to enforce a ceasefire and create conditions for setting up an interim government to hold elections within 12 months.
Kazembe also said the JMC faced severe financial and logistical problems, which prevented it from performing its primary task of investigating ceasefire violations.
The talks are expected to result in an agreement on a comprehensive peace process, including a lasting ceasefire, security, electoral reform, respect for human rights and the rule of law.
Our officers were shot and killed in cold blood by the RPA as they delivered the cease-fire order to the MONUC so that it can be delivered to the RPA.
An FMLN statement issued on the second day of peace talks with the U.S.-backed government urged the army to leave zones that the rebels say they have won control of in the 12-year war "as a sensible measure to sustain the truce".
"When a ceasefire or a peace agreement has been signed, the real job begins."
MANN: And one of those stories, the cease-fire in the Middle East.
Ceasefire called: In the meantime, the government has called for a ceasefire between the rival clans as it seeks to solve the dispute, Rift Valley Regional Co-ordinator Osman Warfa told Sabahi.
In 2012, he was part of a 15-month truce involving the gangs, the government, police and army that cut homicide rates by about half and even led to a handful of days with no murders at all.
Though the FARC lauded Costa Rica's efforts, it would not join in the international ceasefire proposed by Costa Rica because "the war in Colombia continues", Leon said.
The parties agreed to resume talks in 15 days to hammer out a ceasefire agreement.
It urged the Ivorian parties to [words indistinct] ceasefire and adhere to their responsibilities under the Marcoussis and Accra III agreements.
The United Nations would have difficulty in carrying out certain specific activities, including the sending of a protection and observation force to facilitate the implementation of the agreement without a ceasefire, the ambassador added.
"The failure of the rebel movement to hand over the four corpses and the continuing violations which the movement is practising and its lack of response to the comprehensive ceasefire initiative points towards a lack of seriousness for dialogue," the source quoted by the daily said.
-- Associated Press --- MIDEAST Hamas Is Ready to Commit To Cease-Fire With Israel Hamas officials said Tuesday they are ready to commit to a cease-fire with Israel for at least a year in exchange for a full opening of Gaza's borders, as the group began a new round of truce talks with Egyptian mediators.
The rebels' ceasefire does not extend to government forces.
Saudi-led air strikes hit Yemen after truce expires Saudi-led forces resumed military operations in Yemen after a five-day ceasefire ended late on Sunday, and Yemen's exiled government in Riyadh and the Iranian-allied Houthis blamed each other for a failure to renew the truce.
Lebanon is calling, though, for a permanent cease-fire.
And the third act of his personal drama became working out a cease-fire in the seed battles that he'd help instigate in the first place.
This is a cease-fire period leading to the final peace deal after the referendum, and it would make more sense to leave the two signatories to complete the transition.
In it, the Secretary-General states his belief that MINURSO continues to play a key stabilizing and ceasefire-monitoring role and recommends the extension of its mandate for a further six months until 31 October 2006.
If anything, it incensed ethnic resistance, violated cease-fire agreement and diminished whatever confidence of oneness that hitherto existed.
The ceasefire halted fighting between Morocco and guerrillas of the Polisario Front, which seeks independence.
Despite the new row, the president will likely accept the rebel offer, while remaining reluctant to engage in wider hostage talks unless the guerrilla group shows real commitment to a ceasefire.
Mr Museveni argues that if Mr Machar had not stage a failed coup, he won't have quickly formed a rebel group to fight Mr Kiir's government, neither would he lay conditions for a ceasefire deal.
In 14 years of war, Turkey has consistently refused to negotiate with the PKK and has rebuffed all ceasefire offers.
Muhirwa said he would not go home until there was an ethnically balanced government and army, as well as a cease-fire.
"It is possible that a statement may be issued by (Ugandan) President (Yoweri) Museveni...in which he calls for a ceasefire on the part of the forces that are aiming to overthrow Mr Kabila," he said.
Great Lakes analyst Filip Reyntjens told IRIN on Monday details of the ceasefire agreement were still sketchy, but as a first analysis, the situation was "probably better than a week ago", given that rivals Museveni and Kabila were both present.
A two-month-old ceasefire to end a war that has killed 4,000 people has    appeared shakier than ever in the past few days, with each side accusing the other of having violated the terms of the peace plan.
Bayaganakandi on Sunday said that in spite of the fighting, "it's the transitional government that should take on the task of negotiating a ceasefire (to) take away any pretext the rebels might put up for refusing to associate themselves with the peace pact."
The FARC has rejected both sending their comrades abroad and a cease-fire.
The fierce clashes revived residents' vivid memories of when LURD forces stormed the city center early last month before they pulled back to the edges to allow a west African brokered truce to take hold.
From day one we are seeing the government having completely violated the ceasefire," he said.
The talks in Mexico City are aimed at winning a ceasefire in one of Latin America's bloodiest conflicts and the conversion of the FMLN into a purely political movement.
"The delegation will be working towards a permanent ceasefire as a prelude to negotiations for a settlement of the conflict," the statement added.
President Buyoya informed businessmen about the various obstacles to the success of the peace process, the various initiatives made by the mediation and the Burundi government to negotiate a cease-fire, the setting up of transitional institutions and the implementation of the Arusha agreement.
With the ceasefire now in effect and the interim Government in place, the security situation was sufficiently stable for the resumption of humanitarian operations.
Bush sent Middle East envoy Anthony Zinni to the region last week to attempt to broker a cease-fire, re-engaging the United States in the peace effort after staying on the sidelines for months.
Guys, thanks very much for your good reporting Raging battles in Libya today and a surprising round of talks, at least about a cease-fire.
The SPLA would prefer two autonomous forces, but which could undertake cooperative action such as monitoring a ceasefire.
In a document dated yesterday, the Burundi Episcopal conference called for a cease-fire.
But the rebels refuse to fix a ceasefire date if there is no previous agreement on strengthening human rights and reducing the role of the military in Guatemalan society, it said.
It was unclear, however, whether the troops intended to land upon reaching the capital, or remain offshore, pending the outcome of cease-fire talks here.
The ceasefire between the Federal government and Niger Delta militant youths following the release of the kidnapped foreign oil workers, ended when armed youths fought with the Joint Military Task Force (JTF).
The Contact Group (United States, Britain, Germany, France, Italy, and Russia) demanded a cease-fire, the unconditional withdrawal of Serbian forces, the return of refugees, and unlimited access for international monitors.
But we will also follow the discussions on those issues that remain unresolved; namely, the issue of transitional leadership and that of a cease-fire.
Officials did not say whether a ceasefire or demilitarisation would be discussed during this round of talks, which are being mediated by Guatemalan Bishop Rodolfo Quezada and observed by a personal envoy of U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar.
Now, we all want this to be resolved peacefully, but in order for it to be resolved peacefully Mr. Qadhafi must agree to a ceasefire and quit his attacks on his own people.
The establishment of a truce has continued to be a stumbling block, as well as deciding who would lead Burundi during a three-year transitional period.
After a year and a half of talks they say they expect to clinch a cease-fire deal by the end of this month.
The group has refused to sign a cease-fire agreement to end the conflict because of a leadership dispute.
There is no cease-fire," said Lt. Col. Danilo Paiva, a Uruguayan who heads the observer team.
Yet, "temporary ceasefire" is the byword, as NARC grapples with the political implications of Wamalwa's absence and what it holds for the future of the coalition.
The United States has also held out the possibility of a high-level meeting with Arafat if a truce is forged.
"The government is asking for a unilateral cease-fire" by the rebels, Uribe's spokesman, Ricardo Galan, told The Associated Press.
The statement called for an immediate negotiation of a ceasefire, a troop standstill, and the deployment of an international peacekeeping force under the auspices of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) and the United Nations.
One diplomatic source said that Kerubino's presence in Bahr el Ghazal could mean that the ceasefire could quickly collapse even if it is extended on Friday.
Political scientist Jakkie Potgieter of Johannesburg's Institute of Security Studies told Reuters that while a ceasefire between the government and the rebels was possible, any peacekeeping operation faced major problems.
However, despite portraying the bombing raid as routine, Bush also said that Saddam Hussein must abide by the cease-fire agreements that ended the Persian Gulf War in 1991.
The Honduran Foreign Ministry called in a statement for the warring sides to declare a ceasefire which could be the start of a legitimate and permanent peace process.
The rightist ex-contras who kidnapped two national lawmakers and several military officers Aug. 19 in the rugged northern hills were guaranteed a 60-day cease-fire, with their area being declared a "safe haven."
However, the LRA then used the cease-fire zone to attack surrounding villages.
He said the rival political groups had agreed on the composition of a transitional government ahead of a ceasefire.
"We are not talking about a ceasefire now," he said in an interview with British Broadcasting Corporation radio.
In late April--just over a month after the truce went into effect--the Funes administration unveiled its latest weapon in the war on illegal gangs: a 300-person "elite force" with specialized training in intelligence and anti-gang crime-fighting tactics.
Half the plant's workforce of 12,500 were affected by a three-day 'ceasefire' in April with 50% payment whilst each day 'cost' the firm 1,500 vehicles.
It calls for end to hostility and an immediate cease-fire between the two warring factions, urging withdrawal of foreign troops from the war-stricken country.
It is the first time in years that Rabat has linked Algiers directly to an alleged violation of the ceasefire deal between the Polisario Front and Morocco, diplomats say.
Diplomats said the accord's main points were a ceasefire, a commitment to set up a federal constitution, better access for humanitarian agencies, a commitment to fight terrorism and a commitment to pursue the reconciliation process.
Hard-line President Alvaro Uribe has ruled out granting another safe haven, saying the rebels must first declare a cease-fire before peace talks can take place.
"I have seen a growing pragmatism... there is a lower level of rhetoric," Wolpe said, adding that various parties were now working hard to put together a ceasefire and a troop standstill.
His tough approach matches the nonegotiation, no-truce mindset among El Salvador's politicians and public.
Around 4,000 troops from France, the former colonial power, are working alongside 6,000 UN peacekeepers to try to maintain a two-year-old ceasefire.
And after a deadly suicide bombing in downtown Jerusalem on Thursday, Secretary of State Colin Powell, who is traveling with Bush, worked the phones aboard Air Force One trying to broker an Israeli-Palestinian cease-fire.
Greenstock said the 15-member body believed any cease-fire infractions were not the business of the rebels but had to be handled by various regional committees or the United Nations.
Some 4,000 French troops are currently monitoring the ceasefire between the government and rebels, along with 1,500 peacekeepers from the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS).
But Reza Sayah with that breaking news in Cairo, hours away from the end of the cease-fire.
While everything is being done to bring an end to the war, we would like to draw the attention of those involved in the process to realize a couple of issues:    We ask that the peace talks in Addis Ababa should deal with national issues comprehensively, prioritizing discussion on arrangements for cessation of hostilities and permanent ceasefire, civilian protection and opening of safe humanitarian corridors.
It therefore is inappropriate "to treat agreements born out of such haste as conclusive and comprehensive, rather than as what they are, namely elaborate cease-fire agreements or interim political arrangements."
The ceasefire line runs roughly along the boundary between the rebel-held north and the more heavily Christian south, where support for Gbagbo has surged on a wave of patriotism.
Both sides have traded charges of truce violations in the area.
Ukraine supported the initiative of France to convene a meeting of the Political Committee (set up under the ceasefire agreement) in New York next month, which might resolve some of the outstanding questions impeding progress in the peace process.
"The Government fears that even if they agree to a cease-fire, Unita will break it, just like they did after Gbadolite."
Proposal C The third proposal calls for the withdrawal of the UN mission, or for symbolic military observers to be left [to monitor] the cease-fire.
Zuma said this week's meeting clarified some finer points in a ceasefire agreement while others still needed to be discussed.
But the United States made clear it was reluctant to approve a U.N. force if the ceasefire continued to be violated by all sides in the conflict.
Now, however, both sides are wavering on whether to renew the ceasefire again.
Text of report by Liberian Star Radio web site on 21st January It has been confirmed in Monrovia that Ecomog [Economic Community of West African States, ECOWAS cease-fire Monitoring Group] is to completely pull out of Liberia.
A 1999 peace accord signed in Lusaka set a timetable for a ceasefire, the deployment of U.N. peacekeepers and a transition to democracy, but it has not been implemented.
Bemba said the reported air attack was Kabila's 131st violation of a ceasefire signed by all warring parties last year.
A United Nations team trying to negotiate a ceasefire has condemned both sides.
Both the MPCI and the government promised France last week that they would henceforth strictly observe an often-violated ceasefire.
The two-day meeting is expected to review the reported violations of cease-fire and come out with some recommendations in this respect.
The new fighting has raised fears of a collapse in the shaky ceasefire between the rebels and government troops.
Rene Abandi, the head of the M23's delegation at the talks, told reporters here on Aug. 29 that they were ready to declare a ceasefire provided the government side was also ready to do so.
(END VIDEO CLIP) BALDWIN: Again, this is a temporary cease-fire, at least for now.
But the rebels have already demanded Kabila's resignation and also argued over the composition of a Joint Military Commission (JMC) to oversee the truce - a squabble that could derail the ceasefire before it gets off the ground.
"We will certainly comply with the ceasefire, the question is how Kyiv will," Basurin said.
The ceasefire has largely ended fighting which erupted when a 1999 peace deal fell apart almost a year ago, but RUF rebels have recently accused a loyalist militia of launching new attacks.
In addition, however, the AU continues to emphasise a 5-point road map (based on a ceasefire, the protection of civilians, humanitarian aid, dialogue and an inclusive transitional period).
The rebels had earlier at a press conference in Bunagana on Jan.3 threatened to pull out of talks if Kinshasa refused to sign cease-fire But the Defence Ministry spokesperson, Lt. Col. Paddy Ankunda, who works closely with the facilitator says that the "two teams have no option, without peace, they are both losers".
Sankoh, who is appealing against a death sentence for treason, urged his fighters to observe "an immediate ceasefire within 72 hours" and ordered the release of all hostages.
A U.S.-sponsored resolution being debated at the U.N. calls for observers to monitor implementation of the cease-fire, verify the separation and redeployment of opposing troops and lay the groundwork for possible deployment of a much larger U.N. peacekeeping force.
Despite a ceasefire that has been respected so far and the promise of talks, regional analysts warn that it will be very difficult to find a peaceful agreement that could satisfy both government and rebels.
"He only said to me that we should allow a temporary ceasefire to allow the humanitarian relief officers to be given a chance and that during that period Foday Sankoh would be released.
Their mandate, for the moment, is simply to provide protection for AU ceasefire monitors.
The groups reportedly want to discuss the compliance of a ceasefire agreement that pledged the release of political prisoners and payment for fighters who lay down their arms.
Four rounds of talks have failed to produce a ceasefire.
Musyoka also called on the international community to apply pressure on faction leaders and not to bankroll groups still involved in fighting and breaching October's ceasefire.
Worst east Ukraine shelling for month; ceasefire looks in doubt East Ukraine's rebel stronghold Donetsk was pummeled on Sunday by the heaviest shelling in a month, and the OSCE said it spotted an armored column of troops without insignia in rebel territory that Kiev said proved Moscow had sent reinforcements.
The two ceasefire agreements, brokered by international mediators including leaders of the IGAD), and supported by the UN and the AU, have so far been unable to stop the fighting.
Already, that ceasefire looks fragile; what is your assessment?
"Now it is understood that they will take part in the special protection unit, said Buyoya, after "the formal signing of a ceasefire between the government and the three groups."
"Whether we should be getting into this is a decision for the U.N. Secretary-General to make because there are still breaches of the ceasefire which must be verified," Greenstock said.
The latest clashes came despite a ceasefire call by M23 leader Bertrand Bisimwa on Sunday, which prompted international calls for Kinshasa to stop pressing on with the offensive.
Maintaining international peace and security is one of the three principal pillars of the UN edifice, together with promoting development and ensuring the observance of human rights, and the UN Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), no geographical marker in its name, was the world body's very first peacekeeping effort.
The TJRC is thus at the mercy of a ceasefire government who control the funds and the information with neither party having the desire to have closure on the past.
The situation complicated recently when the two main Burundian rebel groups, who reject a ceasefire with the government and participation in the national peace process, have been launching heavy offensives on the outskirts of Bujumbura.
The peace deal, signed by the warring parties in mid-1999, has shown signs of strain, with each side accusing the other of breaching a ceasefire.
Its squabbling warlords agreed a peace deal in August envisaging a ceasefire, disarmament and elections within a year.
Fighting between rival mara has resulted in a high baseline of homicide, which went down to about five killings a day during the government-backed truce in 2012-13 and has spiked dramatically this year as a result of the government crackdown that has made an already horrendous situation worse.
However, last week Annan recommended dispatching up to 500 military observers after most obstacles were removed and the combatants renewed their commitment to the peace process and a cease-fire pact.
A cease-fire has held in Monrovia since the West African peace troops first deployed.
"On the principle of the ceasefire we did not encounter any reticence or hesitation on the part of the mutineers," she said.
We call for a ceasefire, and for the M23 to return Goma to DRC authorities and pull back to their July positions.
There was no word Monday from Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko, who had vowed to start talks on a new cease-fire.
But Saturday's incident was the first since the former colonial ruler issued stronger orders to its troops to shoot anyone breaking a ceasefire.
a truce that will permit (a peace commission) to have contact with these sectors in order to seek their immediate reinsertion to civilian life," he told a news conference yesterday.
(e) Recommend to the Security Council that the UN peacekeeping mission proposed to monitor the ceasefire also assume responsibility for the supervision of the postponed elections.
The United Nations provided human rights observers and, as the accord went into practice, military observers to verify the cease-fire and rebel disarmament.
A cease-fire ended fighting between rebel and government forces after a few days, and the two sides have since maintained an uneasy truce.
We have come to listen to the leaders here, but we are not going to talk about a cease-fire before we have a political settlement," Ngoma said, in reply to a question about what the rebels' negotiating position is.
"We now expect the rebels to sign and respect the cease-fire agreement."
The government had suspended arrest warrants against top AUC members for previous crimes not linked to the cease-fire.
"There is no ceasefire in sight between the army and the rebel groups" and violence is escalating, it said.
Even with the "cease-fire" in place, the numbers of woman and girls being abused and, in the worst cases, killed, remains extremely high by global standards.
On Friday, the armed group announced that a 'unilateral ceasefire' and its withdrawal from Kanyarucinya, about 10 kilometres from Goma.
Mugabe said one obstacle to a cease-fire agreement was the matter of which countries would oversee the peace process.
But a cease-fire has yet to be agreed upon, and the army has repeatedly said it wants the rebel attacks to end before signing anything.
And the two presidents, Poroshenko and Putin, also discussed directly, and that's for the first time for a couple of hours, let's say, the structural elements, the structural building stones of a cease-fire.
Uribe insists he will talk to any illegal armed group that calls a cease-fire.
"Until the ELN (leftist guerrilla group) agrees to a cease-fire, it will be impossible to enter into a serious peace process," Foreign Minister Fernando Araujo said Tuesday.
The ceasefire agreement is expected to be signed before the Ouagadougou meeting of the OAU, according to Chirac.
Villepin said: "The priority is a ceasefire that can hold.
That we must have a ceasefire that affects everyone.'
PARTICIPANTS: * Steve Shadley, KUNM Albuquerque * Tim Keithly, KRUI Ruidoso TOPICS: * Senate Action on S.3711-The Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Bill * S.3711 Relation to Energy Exploration in ANWR * Ceasefire Impact on Israeli-Hizbollah Fight * Opposition to New Mexico Divestiture of Israeli-Linked Assets * Support for $2.10 Minimum Wage Increase and Death Tax Reform * Small Business Acceptance of Minimum Wage Hike * Haggling over LANL Plutonium Building Plan REVIEW: 00:00 - Domenici says he expects an overwhelming Senate vote in favor of his bill to open areas of the Gulf of Mexico to oil and natural gas production.
Both sides have repeatedly said they expect to agree a ceasefire by the end of this year.
The Organization of American States is monitoring the truce, lauded by its secretary general for stemming violence.
The Ukrainian military confirmed the toll on Sunday, as both sides reported renewed violence despite a ceasefire deal.
Tension rose, but the ceasefire held firm.
But fighting broke out again almost immediately as the rebels attacked Monrovia again, and Taylor, who now controls only a fifth of the country, refused to step down as agreed under the truce deal.
Mr Machar had called for a negotiated ceasefire, wanting all his jailed political allies freed before starting talks.
The delegations in fact once again failed to agree on the name of an interim leader, as also the long-attended cease-fire declaration.
Buyoya told reporters that Forces for the Defense of Democracy leader Jean-Bosco Ndayikengurukiye had told Zuma he was willing to discuss a cease-fire.
While one may argue that his work on "Ceasefire," mostly performed in the Dinka and Nuer languages, was the best showcase of his skills as an emcee, the "War Child" CD best reflects Jal's growth as an artist and an activist.
"They (the guerrillas) must announce this cease-fire first," the administration source told the foreign press corps on condition of anonymity.
"We spent the whole day trying to talk the government and the rebels into signing the ceasefire," a harassed mediator said after winding up the discussions at 10:15 pm (2215 GMT) at Accra's plush M-Plaza hotel.
The Contact Group is proposed to contact and negotiate ceasefire between LURD and the government.
Last month the Security Council expressed disappointment at the lack of progress in organising the referendum and warned that any breach of the ceasefire "could seriously threaten regional stability".
I mean, you can imagine if this was happening in Western Europe, it would be, you know, a galactic event that people would be talking - paying a lot of attention to, but it's in Central-East Africa, where it's hard to get to, and I think where people feel it's somewhat removed from our life and our... GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS (ABC NEWS) (OC) Earlier this week, you sent out a tweet urging the US to insist on a ceasefire.
The same parliamentary group took the opportunity to reaffirm its commitment to supporting any initiative aimed at concluding the peace process "by first of all negotiating the ending of the reservations [by Tutsi parties]" and " negotiating how to put a cease-fire in place".
Mr. Taylor agreed to step down peacefully as part of a cease-fire agreement last month but then reversed himself; the result has been heavy fighting in the capital that has left hundreds dead.
"It was encouraging that the two parties in August 1998 agreed to observe a three-month cease-fire which has been maintained to date, to facilitate free flow of humanitarian assistance to the victims of the conflict," Godana said.
The Joint Military Commission is a UN-sponsored ceasefire monitoring group, made up of signatories of the Lusaka ceasefire accord.
Ivory Coast's foreign minister, Amara Essy, said he had tried to convince Bockarie to agree a ceasefire when they spoke by telephone on Saturday.
However, the M23 rebels want a formal cease-fire agreement signed with the government of President Joseph Kabila before the talks continue.
"If there is no extension of the ceasefire we have done all of this (aid work) for practically nothing," Guy Tousignant, the secretary-general of Care International, told Reuters in an interview.
The ceasefire fails to hold and a month later, the country is back at war.
Blaney, the U.S. ambassador, said the southern rebels have now agreed to withdraw to within a few kilometers of Buchanan, using the St. John River as a cease-fire line.
Mr. Richardson has traveled to North Korea on behalf of the U.S. in an effort to convince that country to suspend and dismantle its nuclear program.. During the presidential race in 2007, Mr. Richardson traveled to Sudan at the behest of a non-profit organization, where he engineered a cease-fire between the Sudanese government and rebels.
The Polisario said last month it would end a nine-year U.N.-brokered ceasefire with Morocco and take up arms again if the rally entered the vast Moroccan-controlled territory.
The often-violated Lusaka cease-fire accord gained momentum following Kabila's Jan. 16 assassination and the succession of his son, Joseph, to the presidency.
But the incident frayed nerves and caused tensions to soar among local gang members, many of whom--like Javier Garcia--have involved themselves in projects aimed at reinforcing the truce.
One of his senior commanders, Commander Sam Bockarie, says this is the only way they would observe a ceasefire.
The monitoring bodies said they had observed "no major violations of the ceasefire".
On the subject of the reform of the army " in the earliest time possible", the Rukingama wing of Uprona believes finds that this arrangement, which is provided for in the agreement, "will only take place once the overall agreement for a cease-fire has been obtained"...
About 4,000 French troops are policing a confidence zone around the cease-fire line that divides the country.
State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said US officials were "working very hard" with West Africans to try to get the rebels and Taylor representatives "to implement the ceasefire that they have agreed to, and to reach further agreements that they have agreed to."
And one of the things that Colin is going to do is to work closely with the United Nations to see how best to keep the cease-fire in place."
But Mr. Bisimwa said the rebels abandoned the talks after the refusal of Kinsasha government to sign a cease-fire agreement.
"In order to ensure that the ceasefire holds, UPDF is prepared to ignore sporadic shelling of its positions, but only if such shelling does not amount to preparation for ground attack," he added.
"The international community needs to be very stern with all parties to the conflict that they should stop the fighting now and get ready to sign a ceasefire agreement," Blaney said.
Another diplomat said talks with Museveni and Kabila would centre on securing a ceasefire and would examine Zairean President Mobutu Sese Seko's position that he does not rule out talks with the rebels.
Previous ceasefire talks at regional level have foundered mainly because of Kabila's refusal to meet rebel envoys.
Habyarimana renewed an offer to observe an immediate ceasefire and Museveni, who is current chairman of the OAU, undertook to persuade the rebels to reciprocate.
It means an agreement by both sides to cease-fire.
"This goes beyond ceasefire violations," Col. Gagnon said.
The ceasefire has largely held, despite some clashes between rebels and pro-government militiamen near the diamond-rich rebel strongholds in the east of the country.
The rebels said the attack against SPLA positions in the town of Tam and the area around the town of Renk, about 420 km (260 miles) south of the capital Khartoum, was a serious violation of a ceasefire agreed by both sides.
Between 2005 and 2009, it was engaged in informal peace talks with the government and observed a "temporary and experimental" ceasefire, but by late 2009 this had collapsed.
France, the former colonial power, is monitoring the truce until the west African forces arrive, and has reported no violations.
"We hope we can come to some clear resolution in this meeting, particularly on the issue of who will lead the transition and the question of a cease-fire," he said.
He has come to a ground, to a halt of the offensive, agreed to a cease-fire step back.
"Since the signing of the ceasefire agreement, our troops have been ordered on standstill," he added.
He further added that if action is not taken against this, it might be the beginning of a war between the south and the SPLM, and an end to the cease-fire agreement.
JEFF KOINANGE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Jim, the cease-fire has been called for.
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) - The president of El Salvador denied Wednesday that his government had rewarded his country's two largest street gangs for striking a truce credited with a dramatic drop in the staggering national homicide rate.
The African Union suggested last week it could even send troops if a ceasefire agreement is not reached soon.
The soldiers who attacked the girls that day could be among those coming home under a cease-fire plan mediated by former President Jimmy Carter.
It has never held any balance of power, it has never arbitrated between warring countries and managed to bring them to a ceasefire.
"The ceasefire has now ended because of the repeated violations by Kabila," he added.
In the same comment the ELN said that the eighth round of peace talks, which were resumed on Aug. 20 in Havana, broke down because government delegates demanded that the rebels be concentrated in a specific place and that each one be identified in order to authenticate a cease-fire.
A final ceasefire is a crucial part of the negotiations that two sides began last year.
But overnight gunfire as police clashed with looters sent shivers through the more than one million people packed in the capital and unsure of the truce.
The truce is designed to hold until the two sides can present their case to an arbitrator sometime in the next few months.
In reality, it is benefiting from the current situation, namely the cease-fire with nothing [given] in return, and depleting the assets of the Sahara.
So far, however, only some 850 AUC fighters have surrendered their weapons and countless cease-fire violations have been reported.
With the ceasefire in place, the effects of famine quickly eased and the death rates dropped sharply.
Ndiho said that if these demands were met, discussions could continue for a political agreement based on a return to the 1992 Constitution, which brought in multi-party politics, the creation of a real national army with no ethnic or regional discrimination in its ranks, and finally a ceasefire.
Food and medical stocks and other essential commodities are running low in the city, with relief workers pleading for a ceasefire so that they can care for and treat the wounded.
Still, as troubling as El Salvador's security situation remains, conditions were, by all accounts, far worse before the truce.
The British head of the U.N. program to assist the elections and the 16-month-old ceasefire, Margaret Anstee, urged Savimbi last week to restrain his supporters.
She urged the international community to move quickly to enforce the ceasefire.
"If Vicente ordered Carlos' death during the negotiations, in breach of the cease-fire, then that alone is proof of his bad faith in the demobilization process," said Maria McFarland, Colombia researcher at New York-based Human Rights Watch.
While a ceasefire barely holds in the region, the M23 and President Joseph Kabila's government this month agreed an agenda for peace talks.
He spoke also on security issues such as Amnesty International report on the Joint Task Force (JTF's) brutality; the ceasefire offer by Boko Haram; mystery killing of Gen. Muhammadu Shuwa and how to tackle the insecurity in the country, among other issues.
"Whilst the ceasefire has been holding on, with only some isolated violations, the SADC Allied Forces Headquarters takes these latest developments as very serious military threats, which must never be allowed to continue," the statement said.
Amani Kabasha, a rebel spokesman, said by telephone that they had declared the ceasefire in order to not disturb Ban's visit to Goma, the capital of the mineral-rich North-Kivu.
The idea was to make it substantial enough to meet the requirements of the ceasefire.
The truce marks the culmination of tortuous peace talks which have dragged on haltingly for two weeks.
"It's likely there will be a ceasefire this year, and sooner rather than later," one Western diplomat said.
But the SPLA/M's Kwaje told AFP that the government delegation had shown a willingness to sign the truce after the rebel group, whose soldiers make up about 60 percent of the NDA, said that it would order NDA forces to stop fighting once a truce had been signed.
The RCD accuse the government of breaking the truce and they have threatened to pull out of the dialogue, while Mai-Mai spokesman Muzuri also questioned the value of the talks after what he called "terrorism" by the RCD.
"What is absolutely clear ... is that Colonel Gaddafi has broken his word, has broken the ceasefire and continues to slaughter his own civilians.
- compiled from wire reports Red Cross tries to get aid to Homs before assault BEIRUT - Syrian tanks and troops massed Monday outside the resistance stronghold of Homs for a possible ground assault that one activist warned could unleash a new round of fierce and bloody urban combat even as the Red Cross tried to broker a cease-fire to allow emergency aid in.
REBEL DEMANDS The RCD demands U.N. condemnation of alleged ceasefire violations by the government in remote Eastern Kasai, where U.N. officials have been dispatched to make a report.
The manuscript which contains the proposal by the general who doubles as a senior presidential adviser on military affairs is sarcastically tilted; "Ceasefire: The future is bright".
Pablo Salazar, who defeated the PRI candidate for governor last August, welcomed the withdrawal and said it was especially significant coming around the seventh anniversary of a cease-fire between government and rebels.
"[It] did not agree to respond to our questions on behalf of the army, " stressed the rebel leader, stating that the government representatives have no power to negotiate a cease-fire instead of the combatants.
Finding some solace, Boutros-Ghali said: "I should like to express my satisfaction that the ceasefire is holding."
BUJANOVAC, Yugoslavia: New fighting erupts in the southern Serbian village of Lucane, putting in question the announced signing of a ceasefire accord expected to end hostilities in the area.
Lt. Gen. Ivan Koreta has been appointed to the Ceasefire Transitional Security Arrangement Monitoring Mechanism," James Mugume, Uganda foreign affairs permanent secretary told reporters in Kampala on Monday.
In the meantime, Buyoya's government might try to stoke up an internal peace process to complement the Arusha talks and press once more for a ceasefire to halt the fighting.
"A broader finance will allow the expansion of verification programs for a ceasefire, disarmament and demobilization; and to accompany in a more direct fashion the reintegration of demobilized and support the communities where this process has been developed", Tirado Meja said.
The Jibutian army has taken advantage of the successive cease-fires over more than a year to reinforce its ranks, to swell from more than 5,000 men to almost 20,000.
The CNDD went on to say that among the outstanding areas yet to be negotiated under cease-fire and cessation of hostilities were modalities of integrating belligerent forces in Burundi's new defence and security forces.
Taylor and his rebel opponents, however, have accused each other of violating the terms of a month-old cease-fire accord.
The rebels, for their part, said in a statement issued Wednesday via their Web publication Insurreccion that the latest round of talks ended in a "climate of difficulties" and without the two sides reaching a consensus on a "base accord," which was to include a cease-fire.
Nairobi, Oct 20, 2003 (The East African/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -The vice-president convinced a number of MPs across the board to adopt his long-held stance that the MoU be re-negotiated AN UNEASY truce seems to be holding within Kenya's ruling National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) after almost 10 months of infighting.
"He only wanted to bring us in at the last minute to sign a ceasefire.
* Amnesty International, through its Director General, Claudio Cordone, has said that, "The continued detention of these men over a decade after the declaration of a cease-fire is a grave abuse of their right to physical and mental integrity...a flagrant violation of the international humanitarian law ...and a serious abuse of human rights."
ANNAN SAYS TIME TO IMPLEMENT PEACE ACCORD U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan told the council there had hardly been any cease-fire violations over the last two weeks.
"This cease-fire agreement has given us an opportunity to be together again so anybody who tries to disturb it disturbs the whole region."
When asked whether these measures could include a unilateral cease-fire, she said: ''Maybe, why not?''
"Kabila has never respected the ceasefire.
But the ceasefire talks are bogged down in disputes over a timetable for sealing the ceasefire and progressing to a broader U.S.-backed plan for defusing mutual mistrust and resuscitating talks on a final peace settlement.
Garcia said no conditions had been set for the preliminary talks, such as a ceasefire, and the agenda was open.
[Reporter, recording] On the issue of priority between the putting in place of the commission, the cease-fire or the leadership of the transition, President Buyoya pointed out that the commission only provided a framework of consultation.
Russia says, hang on a second, our troops aren't even in Ukraine, how could there be a cease-fire?
Indeed IHS Global Insight has continually highlighted the fragility of the truce that could collapse at any time, which in turn could lead to a further spike in violence as often occurs with the breakdown of a ceasefire by insurgent or organised crime groups.
They say a ceasefire in eastern Zaire must be quickly agreed.
The cease-fire has generally held, Annan said in the report, and the peacekeepers have had regular contact with the RUF and patrol some of the areas they control.
Despite the signing of the ceasefire accord, both sides report violations and a rift within the main rebel group is holding back progress on forming the joint military commission.
Pastrana's two-year-old efforts to negotiate peace with the rebels have yielded little, with the FARC refusing a cease-fire or any other major concessions.
Leaders of the Great Lake region have warned that the Burundian government and the rebels would risk imposition of sanctions if they do not declare a cease-fire.
The overall accord provides for a permanent ceasefire.
It has in it an international arms embargo, meaning nobody could re-supply Hezbollah after the cease-fire is put in place.
Everything depends on the importance of the discussions we will hold during our next meeting, on the stand we will take as far as the signing of the Lusaka cease-fire accord is concerned.
But there was no tension about whether the two sides in Darfur would break the deals in 2005: they already did in 2004, repeatedly violating cease-fire pledges with new attacks days or weeks within signing pledges.
Nwankwo argued that the key to an understanding of the erstwhile Biafrans' positive attitude to the official declaration of cessation of hostilities lay in the considerable sincerity in Yakubu Gowon's proclamation of armistice for all former Biafrans, which was followed by programmes of national reconciliation, rehabilitation and reconstruction.
"Even if the government refuses to sign a ceasefire agreement we'll continue with the negotiations."
The statement said the two army commanders, "agreed to meet regularly and harmonize the defence and security policies of the two countries as signatories to the Lusaka cease-fire agreement."
Mandela said on Thursday he had asked his deputy, Thabo Mbeki, to contact President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda and ask him to call for a ceasefire in the former Zaire.
The government has said it will not resume talks until a ceasefire is in place.
They will not cease-fire, because the parties are not responsible -- they're not even member states," he said.
Ten years after a cease-fire between nationalist Catholics and unionist Protestants, the landmarks of "the troubles" have become a draw for tourists.
Neither of the two main rebel groups, the Forces of National Liberation (FNL) or the Forces for the Defence of Democracy (FDD) have signed up to a ceasefire.
"African Union peacekeeping forces monitoring an uneasy ceasefire in Darfur are overstretched," the MPs said, adding the AU peacekeepers should be given a full UN mandate and massive additional resources.
The cease-fire declaration came after more than one year without fatal attacks and with the terrorist group weakened by operations launched by the security forces in Spain, France and Portugal.
Now Paris has dramatically altered the mandate of the French forces in Cote d'Ivoire - from ceasefire monitors to peace enforcers, with orders to shoot anyone found violating the truce or committing human rights' abuses.
Saudi-led alliance resumes air strikes on Yemen A Saudi Arabian-led coalition resumed air strikes against Yemen's Houthi militia in Aden overnight, hours after the expiry of a truce meant to facilitate badly needed humanitarian aid, a Reuters eyewitness said.
As soon as he got his transition, he forgot the cease-fire, which he could brandish again at the appropriate moment.
Fighting, which began in 1998, continues despite a shaky cease-fire.
The Speaker takes issue with the behaviour of Burundi politicians who, he says, are not dealing with the fundamental questions such as the cease-fire and the rehabilitation of the victims.
Sir David Hannay said: `By the time Mr Vance goes back to discuss further details and further handling of the issue, there would be further indication whether the ceasefire is holding or not.'
Muteka said that: "If we want to conclude serious accords, it is necessary to sign a cease-fire which can be monitored and allow government and non-government organisations to carry out their actions as has [not] been the case lately."
They are trying to do it to reinforce the Lusaka cease-fire agreement.
A West African survey team's arrival was delayed again on Friday and only after it has begun mapping the ceasefire line will troops be able to deploy.
In a manner similar to that of Sri Lanka, Colombia too has gone through many peace processes, ceasefires and breakdowns.
Significance: With proper government support, including investment in work and rehabilitation programmes, the gang truce could potentially have a positive impact on levels of security in Honduras.
The independent news agency Hirondelle quoted delegates as saying the talks might be "delicate" because the Burundi government insists on a ceasefire with Hutu rebels before a transitional system of government is set up.
A new Israeli airstrike in Gaza, as Palestinian factions fight among themselves -- a new cease-fire was supposed to go into effect about two hours ago, but three earlier agreements fell apart very quickly.
"We want Kinshasa to sign a ceasefire with us and if a U.N. special envoy can help achieve that, we think that that's good," M23 spokesman Bertrand Bisimwa told the journalists in Kamlapa.
But Mr. Savimbi, who said he was willing to wait for a month for the truce to take hold, emphasized that Government forces must withdraw to their earlier positions.
The new sanctions target Russia's major oil companies and pipeline operators, and are expected to take effect within this week after an assessment of whether the ceasefire is holding in the region.
'The ceasefire is holding,' a senior officer with the ECOMOG West African peacekeeping force said.
Both sides blamed the other for resuming fighting although they have not agreed on a ceasefire.
Baum also mentioned a number of breaches of the ceasefire agreement in the oil-rich Western Upper Nile region, and confirmed that deliberate attacks had been conducted by government-allied militias against civilians in a number of areas close to planned government oil fields.
But fighting continued intermittently until the sides agreed on another cease-fire in mid-October and to resume the peace talks mediated by Kenya and other members of the East African grouping IGAD, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development.
Critics say the truce served mainly to give the gangs breathing space to increase their resources and their power.
16 October 1991 Reuters News LBA English (c) 1991 Reuters Limited MEXICO CITY, Oct 15, Reuter - Salvadorean government envoys and leftist rebels broadened the scope of peace talks on Tuesday by agreeing to discuss an interim truce as part of a move to end the 12-year war, a U.N. official said.
The ministers resumed their meeting at 10:30 p.m. Friday to discuss the draft modalities for a cease-fire agreement but their views were divergent on the draft.
[End of recording] For Mr Edmond Borra, the 1993 cease-fire is still in force, unless the Dakar government continues its provocations, in which case the MFDC will respond to them.
"They have to say 'we are ending the rebellion', not just a ceasefire," Kobler told Reuters.
The indigenous leadership in northern Cauca, through the ACIN and other indigenous organizations in the area, has consistently made three demands in order to stabilize the situation in their territories: a complete withdrawal of all armed actors from the municipalities and indigenous territories; an immediate cease-fire and end to hostilities; and a negotiated end to the conflict between the government and the PARC rebels.
The government's top priority is reaching a cease-fire agreement, while the ELN has demanded an amnesty for imprisoned rebels, non-combat activists and union leaders.
Maybe they'll try to reach a new truce.
The appointment of a new prime minister appeared to be an attempt to find a political solution by Siad Barre, whose repeated calls for a ceasefire have so far been rejected.
Meanwhile, ethnic Iksekiri activists accused rival Ijaws of attacking several villages Wednesday - violating the cease-fire the same day it went into effect.
He also expressed hope the latest cease-fire will hold.
But Chiluba said his truce was still intact: "All the parties have assured me of their commitment to the ceasefire agreement.
Meanwhile, West Africa's military army chiefs are set to consider the wider implications for a planned regional ceasefire monitoring force that Ecowas is preparing to send to Cote d'Ivoire.
In a BBC interview, Information Minister Goodridge noted that the Government was baffled about the calls for ceasefire at the time it is the policy of every democratic government in the world not to negotiate with "terrorists."
"We assume a ceasefire is near," Gregorio Rosa Chavez, auxiliary archbishop of San Salvador, said in his Sunday homily.
France slams "violence" in treatment of human rights activists - Saharan official says cease-fire "null and void" unless Morocco abides by commitments.
The violations of the truce in the DRC have drawn serious concern of the signatories to the Lusaka agreement and the international community.
[Presenter] The minister in charge of the peace process, Mr Ambroise Niyonsaba, on his part stressed that the setting up of the transitional institutions was temporary, adding the a cease-fire was an important issue.
Presumably, the cease-fire would include a cessation in the use of anti-personnel land mines, said Human Rights Watch.
Ateny Wek Ateny, a spokesman for Mr. Kiir, dismissed the rebel claims and accused the rebels of "blatantly" violating the cease-fire deal by attacking Malakal.
The releases were the first signs of progress since more than 500 foreign troops were abducted earlier this month, embarrassing the United Nations, plunging this impoverished, war-ravaged country in West Africa into a new crisis and shattering its fragile 9-month-old cease-fire.
On Tuesday, when a new 72-hour truce took hold, residents returned for the first time to see the extent of the destruction -- the worst in a single district anywhere in the Gaza Strip in four weeks of fighting.
An immediate Israeli cease-fire in Gaza would resemble a surgeon extracting just half of a tumor.
Instead, we`re signing cease-fires and peace treaties.
A six-week peace conference in Mogadishu last year also produced a supposed ceasefire pact but had no real impact on the insurgents' Iraq-style campaign of bombs and assassinations.
Pahad said the only way forward was for the government, its rebel opponents and foreign backers on both sides to immediately implement the ceasefire that is the first part of the Lusaka accord.
In a statement faxed to the Associated Press Wednesday, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the withdrawal would be carried out "as a demonstration of Uganda's commitment to a successful implementation of the Lusaka cease-fire agreement."
Buyoya had previously insisted the transition could begin only after a ceasefire was agreed with the rebels.
FARC leaders agreed Friday to end mass kidnappings and consider a cease-fire proposal.
He said Kabanda informed him that the rebel council was going to meet immediately to discuss the proposed cease-fire and its terms.
"We do respect the ceasefire but Kabbah and his government is not respecting the ceasefire," he said, adding he had been waiting to talk to his fighters for the past six months.
"The authority (ECOWAS) calls on the belligerents to observe an immediate and unconditional ceasefire and encourages the convening of a round table conference between the political forces in Liberia," the statement said.
India confirmed it lost two planes, saying one of them crashed after engine failure, but said both aircraft had been on the Indian side of the tense ceasefire line.
His comments came after President George W. Bush made similar remarks, stressing that the United States would not participate in any peacekeeping operation unless Taylor was gone and a ceasefire was in place.
Often, the U.N. is called in to monitor a ceasefire between two states or between groups within a state.
A tenuous truce between rival street gangs has held for four months and counting, halving El Salvador's horrific homicide rate and raising hopes among some daring optimists of a lasting "peace process."
"When they leave and how they leave will be part of the ceasefire agreement," he said.
Many girls had been abducted and forced to stay with rebels until they escaped or until the ceasefire was signed, according to the report, titled Women, War and Peace.
Do you think it's feasible for the FMLN to agree to a cease-fire without some degree of military reform preceding the cease-fire?
Kinshasa was assumed to have been the headquarters for the United Nations, which wants to deploy 500 military observers, backed by troops, sometime this summer to supervise a peace pact providing a ceasefire is honoured.
The president called the Lusaka cease-fire agreement a good solution to the year-long civil war in the DRC.
Western diplomats in Kinshasa expressed reservations about the ceasefire.
"There is absolutely no ceasefire, no change in our military strategy, said chief rebel negotiator Thomas Woewiyu.
However, the parties are stuck on the specifics of a formal ceasefire agreement and have not yet begun the final round of implementation modalities.
The group of West African nations known as ECOWAS has pledged to send in up to 1,500 troops to enforce a cease-fire.
"We see no connection between the compliance with the Lusaka cease-fire agreement and the statements made in the report of the expert panel on the illegal exploitation of natural resources," she said.
Mbabazi said, "I am not aware that Bemba is in violation of the ceasefire agreement."
White House spokesman Scott McClellan condemned the latest round of cease-fire violations and called on both sides to stop the fighting.
In the meantime, the Secretary-General recommends the extension of the Mission's mandate for a further period of three months, which would allow the Mission to complete its consolidation phase and respond to the requirements of the Abuja ceasefire agreement.
I assured him the United States will work closely and in concert with the United Nations and ECOWAS to maintain the cease-fire and to allow a peaceful transfer of power.
French troops initially deployed to protect French citizens, but eventually were called upon to enforce a cease-fire and support a U.N. peacekeeping force.
Q: Have CARE staff seen any major improvements in the ease with which they are able to operate since the ceasefire came into operation?
Uribe, a conservative who took office two years ago, has said he is willing to open peace talks with the FARC provided the group first declares a unilateral cease-fire.
The two presidents also promised to make RCD officials sign the cease-fire which has already been ratified by heads of state on 10th July in Lusaka.
Speaking to journalists as he arrived at Maputo's City Hall for the Southern African Development Community [SADC] leaders' summit, he said it was sad that these forces now had to sign a cease-fire for a war they waged in another sovereign country.
Leaders pledged to send a 300 member armed force to Darfur to protect 60 AU observers who are monitoring a ceasefire between Khartoum, the SLM/A and the JEM.
Speaking before Sankoh's recorded broadcast, commander Sam Bockarie told BBC radio that Kabbah's word alone of the truce was not acceptable.
(End VT) MARK PHILLIPS: And now the Libyans have again promised a ceasefire, the same promise they made two days ago in which they were accused of repeatedly violating.
The two leaders also reaffirmed their commitment to cooperate with the verification team and agreed upon a common position on the question of securing signatures to the Lusaka cease-fire agreement.
His group launched a Feb. 28 attack on rebels in Logouale -- the second violation of a cease-fire by pro-government forces.
Khartoum said it would return to the negotiating table once a ceasefire was in place.
"It's not the time for truces, it's the time for concrete proposals."
It is not clear whether the Security Council will act on the resolution, which is intended to help implement a cease-fire and to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R-AZ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The government of Georgia has called for a cease-fire and for a resumption of direct talks on South Ossetia (ph) with international mediators.
Nujoma accused the MLC of continued ceasefire violations, but insisted that the allied forces have been observing the shaky truce agreed at Lusaka.
Despite the presence of AU peacekeepers and a cease-fire agreement, violence persists, choking the flow of humanitarian aid and endangering an already fragile and frightened population.
Despite the peace accord between Kabila and his backers and the rebels and their allies, fighting has continued with both sides accusing each other repeated cease-fire violations.
Dia Wamba said the RCD would carry no fixed agenda to the talks but was prepared to discuss the details of a ceasefire deal agreed at an earlier summit but yet to be implemented.
Ukraine's prime minister said two drones have been delivered to the country so international observers can monitor a shaky cease-fire between government forces and pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine.
The meeting is aimed at working towards a cease-fire agreement in Burundi.
Asked about the situation in Kisangani, he replied: "As you know we have signed a ceasefire.
Sadio, unlike the rebels' civilian leader, refused to sign the March ceasefire.
It's appropriately called Ceasefire and was developed in Boston with the help of Harvard researchers.
It was unclear if all rebel groups had signed up to the temporary ceasefire but relief officials said that even with help from the warring parties, the task remained daunting.
"During ETA's 1999 cease-fire, we thought there would be a negotiated solution," says Juan Francisco Lerena, a researcher at the Crisis Cell, a Madrid-based think tank.
The Africa Group, therefore, viewed sufficient troop deployments as a prerequisite to the implementation of programmes leading to compliance with a ceasefire and disengagement plan, as well as progress towards voluntary DDRRR.
The cease-fire extends to the Iraqi police force, the Iraqi defense force and U.S. forces who will hold their fire during the course of this night.
MODEL military spokesman Gal Boi Bleaju Boi told AFP that they were respecting the ceasefire, but "if anybody attacks us from Buchanan, we can take over Buchanan to protect the civilians", many of whom fled the fighting in Monrovia.
Although going into the talks M23 had virtually declared a unilateral ceasefire, it is unlikely they will stop war against Kabila.
President Alvaro Uribe's top peace negotiator, meanwhile, demanded that four paramilitary factions blamed for cease-fire violations immediately begin to disarm and ruled out any deal that would allow chieftains to escape jail time or extradition to the U.S.
Prof. Kennedy's other innovation was the Boston Ceasefire program.
But the leadership of the transitional government and a cease-fire have remained major sticking points.
"There is no ceasefire."
"For the last number of months, Sadr has had a ceasefire on his followers.
It wasn't clear yesterday whether Merrick would meet Savimbi during his mission to shore up a shaky ceasefire.
The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) lifted a three-month ceasefire this month and threatened to resume its campaign of violence, which has battered Africa's biggest energy industry for the past three years.
"Any hostile action by either party would constitute a gross violation of the ceasefire and would only serve to undermine the ongoing efforts towards achieving an early, durable and agreed resolution of the dispute," Eagleton added.
Bush said he wanted to help an African force, of the Economic Community of West African States, to ensure a cease-fire in the West African country.
Messrs Nzeyimana and Karikurubu added that these proposals will be sent to the mediator who is going to convene, in a month's time, a regional summit to come up with solutions to the two current preoccupations namely the transitional government and the cease-fire.
Civil Society organisations that have boycotted the TJRC process should now compliment the efforts of the KACC and take up the running when the two parties call a ceasefire and strike a deal on exposing each other's looting.
While the main task of the 300-strong force will be to protect 60 AU officials who are monitoring a ceasefire between government and two loosely-allied rebel groups, Obasanjo indicated that it would not remain passive in the face of attacks on civilians.
--- Spanish gov't says peace process with ETA in "slowdown" Madrid (EFE).- The Spanish government believes the peace process in the Basque Region, six months after the cease-fire declared by the terrorist group ETA, is in a "slowdown," but it continues to hold out hope that a lasting peaceful solution will be found, legislative sources told EFE.
At present, just over 300 AU soldiers are present in Darfur to guard about 70 monitors who are overseeing the shaky truce.
Alongside 4,000 French soldiers, the peacekeepers are policing a fragile ceasefire since a failed coup on 19 September pushed the country into civil war.
So when they started talking of ceasefire... a ceasefire takes much longer to negotiate - I said, no, go for cessation of hostilities, for immediate cessation of hostilities, and then you can work out the detail, the demands on both sides, and then we'll try and put an international force in the middle to try and separate the protagonists.
On Thursday, Ivorian government warplanes began air raids against rebel-held territory in the north, shattering a truce and pushing the divided nation to the brink of renewed civil war.
"In examining the recent clashes one should not miss the fact that even among those MFDC combatants who have taken money from the government to abide by a de facto ceasefire, some still want independence or at least believe that since the government is not amenable to real negotiations, war should resume so as to force Dakar at least to grant some form of recognition."
Member countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) "insistently call on the warring parties to abide by commitments of the peace process and to continue negotiations on ceasefire," the sources said.
(Yemen-Ceasefire) Enditem
But Galan has made little progress since his release, with the government insisting that the ELN declare a cease-fire and stop kidnapping as preconditions for any talks -- both of which the ELN high command has rejected.
6, Col. 3 English (c) 1999 New York Times Company Jailed Kurdish guerrilla leader Abdullah Ocalan, in first public statement since being seized in Kenya, says he will defend himself at trial by pointing out that he repeatedly called unilateral cease-fires in his war with Turkish Army, but that Govt ignored them (S)
The rebels have long said they will only agree a ceasefire when all outstanding issues have been settled in peace talks.
The ECOWAS' call for a cease-fire came shortly after recent attacks by the armed Liberian rebels around area close to Monrovia.
Robertson's departure from the political scene is a providential opportunity to call a cease-fire in the domestic religious war that most Americans never wanted to fight.
Now, he said, there are more than 66,000 uniformed personnel and almost 15,000 civilians serving the cause of peace in 17 peacekeeping operations around the globe, maintaining ceasefires and monitoring borders and fostering reconciliation among others.
The truce calls for an international force, preferably from the same Portuguese-speaking states, to be sent to act as a buffer between the two sides during the negotiations.
"A man who is negotiating a ceasefire should be properly attired, for goodness sake," Golley, RUF's legal representative told Reuters in Abidjan, where he is currently based.
"A lot of ceasefire violations are taking place at many fronts, in many sectors.
Jacob Zuma was also extensively involved as an expert facilitator, helping to broker the eventual cease-fire with the main rebel movements.
24 March 2002 Agence France-Presse AFPR English (Copyright 2002) AMMAN, March 24 (AFP) - Jordan's King Abdullah II met with US President George W. Bush in Mexico and urged him to press efforts for an Israeli-Palestinian ceasefire, the Petra news agency said Sunday.
FRONTLINES QUIET The front lines have been quiet this year, allowing the United Nations to deploy hundreds of unarmed military observers to police the ceasefire, backed by around 2,000 troops.
He said American military teams in Africa were ''assessing Ecowas strength -- how soon, how quick, what kinds of troops, who they are -- to determine what is necessary from our side to fulfill the commitment I have made that we will help maintain the cease-fire,'' Mr. Bush said.
Ajello, who ended a three-day mission to Bujumbura on Friday, told reporters that President Pierre Buyoya "was agreed (that) the peace process has to go on", but he added that "the ceasefire problem needs to be looked at in depth".
Aug 18 - Transitional parliament, the first legislative body since Kabila took power, says 1999 ceasefire overtaken by events and calls for fight against invading forces.
This has amounted to a setback to the new round of talks with the government on the pending issue of cease-fire in the country's ongoing seven year civil war.
MINURSO is mainly charged with monitoring a ceasefire in the former Spanish colony.
But as we went to press, regional leaders were heaping pressure on the warring parties to reach a ceasefire, to end the fighting and atrocities that have claimed thousands of lives displaced about 500,000 civilians.
Martyrs were falling on a daily basis and an immediate ceasefire was needed now to restore the loss of confidence and to establish a national dialogue with all members of Syrian society.
Ntakirutimana said the humanitarian situation in Burundi would not improve unless an effective cease-fire was agreed upon.
West African nations have already pledged to send up to 1,500 troops within two weeks to maintain a fragile ceasefire.
"We shall not respect that ceasefire unless LRA groups go to one uninhabited place or ask for safe passage to go to such a place," Museveni said in a statement published in the state-owned daily New Vision.
As Powell prepares to enter talks with Arafat, the missing link in any effort to achieve a ceasefire is a readiness by the Palestinian leader to renounce the repugnant strategy of using terror against civilians.
Mr Zuma talked about this [cease-fire] question and said that he had made many suggestions since that date, but they were in vain, because meetings between the rebels and the government were nearly all futile.
Even if the truce does endure, its impact is likely to be very limited.
The programme will face numerous challenges, however, including convincing the Salvadoran public, many of whom maintain animosity towards the gangs and are still sceptical of the truce, and may balk at opening up their communities to members of the criminal groups.
And I think as I just said, any crossing of the area of separation is a breach of the ceasefire line.
The representative of the Organization of American States told Colombian media the incident constitutes a new violation of the cease-fire and said he would present a report on the killings at his next meeting with negotiators from the government and the AUC.
U.N. officials have estimated that more than 10,000 troops would be needed, but the Security Council is adopting a gradual approach, watching to see if the ceasefire holds.
The rival factions had previously continued to fight it out on the ground as the five previous ceasefire agreements signed over the course of 2014 were short-lived.
So -- QUESTION: So what happens on Friday 1: 00 a.m. Eastern, 8: 00 a.m. local, when the cease-fire is supposed to be done?
The draft document outlines a timetable for a truce, the details of its implementation and a commitment to political negotiations between Kabila's government and opposition groups.
- U.N. Security Council calls for ceasefire in Bihac enclave.
For the good of this community, we have to have cease-fires.
Top leaders of both sides have said in recent weeks they believe they can reach a ceasefire by the end of this year.
Its mandate includes monitoring the ceasefire, assisting the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of combatants, helping investigate human rights abuses and supporting the peace process so that new presidential elections can be held in 2005.
; Cease-fired urged for Sudan, rebels in Darfur; UNITED NATIONS -- Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged the Sudanese government and all rebel groups Wednesday to agree to a cease-fire in Darfur, saying deteriorating security is undermining efforts to help thousands of civilians caught in an upsurge in fighting.
Oosterveld said it wouldn't surprise her if the Security Council eventually makes such a referral in the case of Syria, especially if mass killings - such as the recent massacre in Houla - continue and efforts by special envoy Kofi Annan to strike a ceasefire do not succeed.
"I'm not even sure how many ceasefires we've had today."
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) COOPER: Ambassador Areikat, how confident are you that this time this 72-hour cease-fire will hold?
The U.N. Security Council this week is to discuss a resolution calling for a cease-fire and transfer of power in Yemen.
The parties, who held the eighth round of talks in the middle of this year in the Cuban capital, have not been able to agree on how to verify a ceasefire and the rebels have not accepted the idea of gathering in special zones so that they can be more easily monitored by the security forces.
Habyarimana renewed an offer to observe an immediate ceasefire starting on Monday and Museveni, who is current chairman of the Organisation of African Unity, undertook to persuade the rebels to reciprocate.
Securing a lasting reduction in the murder rate would be a long, treacherous path, said Raul Mijango, a former guerrilla commander who helped mediate the ceasefire.
And we are saying that it will nice on the government's part to actually stop now, cease all those military efforts so that we can create a climate of confidence where we can begin talking not only about the cease-fire but addressing the humanitarian crisis.
The truce ended midnight Oct. 15.
His "Made in Africa" truce, if achieved, could require the costly deployment of thousands of U.N. blue helmets in the former Zaire, Africa's third largest country, to be followed by talks between government, combatants and political groups.
A January cease-fire hasn't taken hold, so regional leaders are determining how best to reinforce the truce.
"The provisions of the ceasefire agreement could only be implemented in an environment devoid of hostilities and that the Joint Verification Team (JVT) established under the agreement could not under the circumstances, carry out its mission of determining and defining the disposition of the forces of the three warring parties," he said.
Bujumbura has always said a ceasefire should come first.
President Salva Kiir's government offered an olive branch to the rebels on Friday, proposing a ceasefire and saying it would release eight of 11 senior politicians, widely seen to be Machar allies, arrested over an alleged coup plot against Kiir.
He said the delegation had received a positive response from the rebels, who were considering SADC's proposal for a ceasefire.
First, this means we will have to facilitate procedures to attain a cease-fire.
Asked whether the ceasefire will be monitored, Sumbeiywo said: "There is no monitoring, but we will assist them to establish channels of communication."
It needs to encompass the possibility of sequentially scaling up pressure on both Taylor and LURD (including LURD-MODEL) for a ceasefire and creating an environment in which human rights are respected and electoral campaigning can take place unhindered by violence.
The report finds that the effective monitoring of the ceasefire between the parties by MINURSO over the last 13 years has been a major stabilizing and confidence-building achievement.
Acland's papers reveal deep division between the British military officers who managed the ceasefire and FCO diplomats.
But the government rejected the idea of any intermediaries and repeated its stance that negotiations will happen only if Farc agrees to a ceasefire.
"If Kabila really wants a cease-fire, he should show signs of good will," Ilunga said.
Captain Kelly responded that he would hold position, but immediately requested a ceasefire over his radio.
A simple cease-fire is not going to work at this stage.
Only then - and assuming the ceasefire finally holds - would it move to the deployment of a larger peacekeeping force.
30 December - The definitive implementation of a ceasefire agreement between the transitional government and a rebel group, due to have come into force is delayed.
[BBC, 10/29] Nov. 1: A series of fresh clashes between government forces and militants represented the collapse of the October 29 ceasefire.
Nearly 18 months after then-US Secretary of State Colin Powell first labeled the war in Darfur a genocide, the Bush administration now appears to realize that the cease-fire monitors have been "protection on the cheap," as one diplomat stated, and cannot solve this crisis.
The World Health Organisation has launched a mass inoculation programme and is hoping to negotiate "days of tranquility" - ceasefires - in order to get to and vaccinate three million children who are still susceptible.
1 September 1998 Xinhua News Agency XNEWS English (c) Copyright 1998 Xinhua News Agency KAMPALA, September 1 (Xinhua) - Ugandan Parliament Tuesday started debating a motion seeking to oblige the government and rebels to a cease-fire and constitute a national compromise commission.
As a matter of fact, with the influence that President Jammeh has he can help us talk with our brethren in the rebel camp to accept a ceasefire.
The LURD launched its most audacious offensive on Monrovia last month, fighting its way to the heart of the city before pulling back to the edges ahead of the ceasefire.
Both sides have frequently accused the other of violating the year-old ceasefire.
The rebels had earlier offered a unilateral ceasefire over Christmas and the New Year holidays but the move was described as a propaganda ploy by government and army officials.
However, it doesn't say that Israelis, by shooting down an aircraft in the Syrian side, violated the ceasefire or the separation agreement.
The Polisario Front has made it clear that when the rally crosses this zone, there will be a violation of the cease-fire, therefore, a resumption of the hostilities, as in the past, before the accords which led to the establishment of the cease-fire.
His group launched a Feb. 28 attack on rebels in Logouale - the second violation of a cease-fire by pro-government forces.
James Kazini called Karake on a satellite telephone and requested a cease-fire in order to withdraw, Karake said.
"We remain fully engaged in the ceasefire pact," said Millington, who had attended talks in the Kenyan town of Machakos, where he said both sides had shown they were committed to reaching a comprehensive agreement.
While the gesture was welcomed by Kofi Annan, he has emphasised that the extent of the action is insufficient and long overdue, under both the ceasefire agreement and the Geneva Conventions.
"If there is a truce there will be a better climate for negotiating to reach a definitive ceasefire as soon as possible," Villalobos said as he entered the closed-door talks on the southern outskirts of Mexico City.
Russia is not being freed of the obligations under the ceasefire agreement, even though it took unilateral steps to recognize the separatist regions of Georgia, she said.
"They (Kabila and Sahnoun) met in Gulu in talks chaired by Museveni but Kabila bluntly refused to commit himself to a ceasefire of any kind," a diplomat said.
If this were not enough to make any ceasefire plan look remote, recriminations between officials of countries at the summit added to the gloomy outlook: charges of genocide, ethnic violence, treachery and lying were exchanged following the close of the talks.
The frontlines have been largely quiet this year, allowing the U.N. to deploy hundreds of unarmed military observers to police the ceasefire.
Bomani told delegates and international envoys that Mandela was still working "very hard" to obtain a cease-fire in Burundi.
7 Sanaa, Yemen Truce barely holds as violence resumes Yemen's humanitarian cease-fire came under significant strain in its first 24 hours Wednesday, disrupted by a Saudi-led coalition airstrike, fighting between rival sides in a strategic province and shelling by coalition warships west of the port city of Aden.
It's easy to talk about a `truce' but it's really a pax mafioso.
Feb 13 (Interfax) - The ceasefire deal that forms part of a conflict settlement agreement for eastern Ukraine reached at a Normandy format summit in Minsk on Wednesday and Thursday means the meeting has accomplished its "minimum task," but it is "an absolutely fundamental" achievement if it works, a senior Russian lawmaker said.
MEND, which called off its unilateral three months' ceasefire on Saturday, pointed out that it had never had faith in the entire amnesty exercise, which was offered by President Yar'Adua to Niger Delta militants, but had given dialogue a try to prove to the world the insincerity of the Federal Government, oil companies and other collaborators in the "theft of the resources of the Niger Delta areas."
And, once again the sound of rocket fire this morning in Gaza just as that seventy-two-hour ceasefire had expired between Israel and Hamas militants.
So you cannot expect them to willingly accept the military restrictions in the cease-fire agreement without being part of the political process.
On Monday, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni warned rebel leaders to agree to a ceasefire or face defeat.
Chavez, who had spearheaded the handover, dubbed "Operation Emmanuel," said the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, one of the world's oldest insurgencies, called off the mission after demanding a "real ceasefire" first and alleging that military operations were threatening the handover.
Sharon said it would be easier for Israel's cabinet to let Arafat travel abroad if the Palestinian leader addressed his people in Arabic to declare a ceasefire and call for an end to violence in an 18-month-old uprising against Israeli occupation.
The fighting further weakens a 2-year-old cease-fire.
"It is a lie to give an impression that a ceasefire was violated when there is no such agreement in the first place."
"This can't be called a cease-fire," Mr. Koang said.
Both the government and the rebels, who control roughly the eastern half of the vast country, have traded charges of truce violations since soon after they signed the accord.
A statement issued at the end of a three-day meeting said after discussing numerous reports of cease-fire violations from both sides, the political committee approved a disengagement plan that had previously been adopted by military leaders.
We are remaining in our positions and maintaining the cease-fire to facilitate the disarming, the source added.
The rebel official promised his side would not target American troops if they are sent to enforce a truce.
Sources close to the meeting told Shabelle English service that Sheikh Sharif was accompanied by that meeting With Yates Sherif Hassan Sheikh Aden the chairman of Central committee of ARS group as the two sides concentrated on the their meeting on the subject of cessation of hostility, preventing the violation the truce deal between jointly signed by Somali government and the opposition.
Uribe has sought to get them to agree to a cease-fire and bring them to the negotiating table.
The solution is, first of all, to have a ceasefire.
The rival forces at the two ends of the bridge have an informal ceasefire, and journalists and relief workers have crossed the bridge.
He said rebels wanted to grab territory ahead of the arrival of a team of international monitors meant to map the ceasefire line.
After numerous treaties and ceasefires the situation is far from conducive to peace.
The resolution will also renew UN backing for the French and African troops monitoring a ceasefire between government forces and rebels who launched an uprising in September 2002.
FARC and the government are due to start talks on a truce on July 3.
GOVERNMENT ADVANCE When Khartoum's forces retook Torit last week, the rebels gave in to a government demand that they sign a ceasefire before resuming peace negotiations.
We urge them to reach specific agreements on employment and economic policy; begin talks on political agreements, and also discuss the proposals for a cease-fire and end to hostilities, the struggle against drug trafficking, crop substitution, and the release of soldiers, policemen and all kidnap victims.
In other words, if they are meeting violence at the hands of another side -- I think that`s what you were suggesting -- then it becomes in their self-interest to voluntarily negotiate their own cease-fires.
The truce ended at midnight Oct. 15.
The SPLA did not sign, but took part in the October talks which produced no ceasefire but yielded an agreement to meet again.
Helping the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) enforce a ceasefire in the war-torn west African nation "may require troops.
Every meeting had seen an endorsement of the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement, he said.
No more is peacekeeping limited to just observing truces or ceasefires.
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and French President Jacques Chirac afterwards announced a ceasefire deal but participants in the negotiations quickly differed over the scope of the agreement and even whether there was one.
Solomon Islands HONIARA -- Cease-fire talks between rival militias engaged in a deadly 19-month conflict foundered after three rebel leaders failed to show up.
Prepared by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. BROOKE BALDWIN, CNN ANCHOR: The Mideast cease-fire is holding still today.
What we saw in the last day or so was a very fragile truce emerge, a very fragile first step.
He noted that the ceasefire agreement would open up space for further negotiations.
"We are ready today for a comprehensive and complete ceasefire, monitored by the international community," he said.
"Their forces continue to play a crucial role in monitoring the cease-fire and preventing the resumption of conflict," he said.
Fadul also accused troops loyal to Vieira of breaking a three-month truce and plunging the country back into civil war.
Mandela was mandated by SADC to contact the Organization of African Unity and set up a mechanism for carrying out the cease-fire proposal.
Existing cease-fire arrangements do not envisage such operations in a war zone, and consequently the Sahrawi army must carefully consider its position and response if these inflammatory activities proceed.
On several occasions, Jean-Pierre Bemba's men and Ugandan troops, who have not seen things in the same light, have violated the cease-fire.
Mexico City was once seen as a safe haven, a ceasefire zone of sorts, where one could hide out as a last line of defense.
There may be some individual engagements in a later period, which is why a period between the ceasefire and the pullback of armaments will be provided for normalizing the situation and stopping the clashes," Purgin said.
Unveiling the plan late on Monday, he urged United Nations Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to arrange immediate talks between his government and leftist rebels to "calendarise" a series of meetings leading to a ceasefire.
SPLM/A spokesman Samson Kwaje said it seemed that both sides had agreed that as long as there was no cease-fire, fighting would continue, but this would not affect the talks.
"It's easy enough to sign a cease-fire, but diffi= cult to make it stick", one regional analyst told IRIN on Monday, adding that the= stakes were high and the prevailing feeling was that a failure of the process co= uld result in quite a serious escalation in fighting.
Guatemalan President Jorge Serrano said yesterday that his government is willing to sign a ceasefire with rebels and asked the United Nations to monitor their demobilization.
Against this canvass, the presence of outside non-partisan elements was conceived as a practical    measure to aid in the maintenance and consolidation of the truce.
The government-rebel ceasefire, which is renewed every six months, is a condition for aid deliveries to the south.
Despite the presence of the peacekeepers, sporadic clashes have continued between the previously warring factions, with all sides routinely complaining of ceasefire violations.
(Press Release SC/8953) Israel and Syria The Council twice renewed the mandate of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF), which has supervised the ceasefire between Israel and Syria since 1974.
"If they are willing, for example, to accept a cease-fire I would be able to establish a demilitarized zone bigger than was defined for the humanitarian (prisoner swap) accord," Uribe said on Monday.
Estimates of the numbers of dead over the last eight months  as Nato leaders vetoed ceasefires and negotiations  range from 10,000 up to 50,000.
We need details on how we would go about implementing a ceasefire, while our withdrawal is contingent on our security concerns being addressed and an international peacekeeping force coming in."
In a report to the Security Council on Thursday, Annan noted that the recent adoption of a disengagement plan by the Political Committee overseeing implementation of the Lusaka ceasefire agreement would "lend impetus" to the deployment of some 5,500 troops and military observers under the second phase of MONUC.
"We, in government, have respected the ceasefire.
The talks have failed to produce a breakthrough, and a ceasefire signing ceremony planned for today has not taken place.
"I believe the talks will result in the announcement of a ceasefire tonight.
"How can you have a legitimate peace process or cease-fire when you're dealing with an indicted war criminal?"
Israel can keep working energetically with Egypt to implement the ceasefire to keep the rockets out but also work to try to advance the needs of the people of Gaza.
Wamba said the rebels were still ready to negotiate a ceasefire with Kabila, but "officially he doesn't seem to be responding".
The talks also failed to produce a cease-fire, dashing hopes of Western diplomats and United Nations aid officials.
Kisenkoetter says the tenuous state of emergency surrounding the ceasefire furthers the sense that accountability will be pushed down the road.
When Muqtada al-Sadr says he wants a six month cease-fire, it's because he has lost the war.
JEM, which accuses the government of marginalising Darfur, has not signed a truce with Khartoum.
The Tutsi president had previously insisted the interim goverment could not get off the ground until after a ceasefire deal was struck with the two Hutu groups fighting his government.
---NEW DELHI - India's prime minister said his country's ceasefire in Kashmir could continue after the Islamic holy month of Ramadan if Pakistan created the right conditions, Press Trust of India (PTI) reported.
New York Times: For the first time in more than two years, Darfur rebels fighting the Sudanese government for more autonomy are making brazen, direct and successful attacks on soldiers and are declaring that all previous cease-fires are no longer in effect.
Kerry said that he and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov "talked today about the possibility of trying to encourage a ceasefire.
The news comes as a group of Colombian legislators of Middle Eastern descent demanded that the government step up calls for a cease-fire to stop the fighting between Israel and Hezbollah.
Under the initiative, several ministerial meetings have been held, but a heads of state summit originally scheduled for early December to secure a ceasefire was postponed several times.
The CNDD-FDD, the largest rebel army, says it will not agree to a ceasefire until the government first meets four demands.
After the council briefing, Chowdhury issued a statement saying members "expressed serious concern about the violations" of the resolution setting up the observer force and of the Lusaka ceasefire agreement.
Mr. Choi heads the UN Operation in Cte d'Ivoire (UNOCI), which was set up in 2004 to help ensure a ceasefire and pave the way for permanent peace and democratic elections.
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) - El Salvador will move its embassy in Israel from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv, saying Friday it had made the decision following a U.N. cease-fire resolution on the conflict in Lebanon that sought to promote greater security in the Middle East.
"For the sake of the hundreds of innocent men, women and children who could lose their lives if the ceasefire in the Spanish Sahara were to be broken, we appeal to you to have the United Nations resume, without any further delay, its involvement in the identification process," he said.
Since the cease-fire, we have directed the majority of our young people towards university education and a considerable number of our fighters have been deployed to other jobs away from the combat front.
WASHINGTON, May 17 (AFP) US Senator John McCain on Tuesday called on the Polisario Front to free more than 400 Moroccan prisoners of war -- some jailed for a quarter century -- years after a UN-brokered a ceasefire in the dispute.
Air raid sirens, rocket attacks, attempted ceasefire, as well, the situation in the Middle East seems to be deteriorating by the hour.
Two weeks ago, the five West African nations told the three main parties in the war - President Doe, Mr. Taylor and Prince Johnson, a rival rebel leader - that there must be a firm truce in the war and that a multinational peacekeeping force must be sent to disengage the warring factions.
Nowadays, Dundalk is a prosperous and peaceful place, reflecting the new era in cross-Border relations since the paramilitary ceasefires and the establishment of a powersharing Executive in Northern Ireland.
The sides are due to meet again in the second half of next month to try to resolve a few remaining differences before a ceasefire.
He added that the international community could not escape its responsibility to help achieve a ceasefire.
"My sincere belief is that the rebels will come to Lusaka tomorrow and that they will sign their part of the ceasefire deal.
Putin and Merkel urged an early ceasefire in Ukraine and a re-launch of monitoring activity.
[10] On 6 December 2000, the President of the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic, Polisario's Secretary-General Mohamed Abdelaziz, made a formal complaint to the UN Secretary General that Morocco had violated the ceasefire by laying mines.
Since the war ended, the UN has had a peacekeeping presence in the country to bolster a ceasefire agreement and help restore the rule of law and democratic processes, as well as facilitate humanitarian assistance.-0- PANA AA/VAO 10Sept2013
There is a ceasefire in place which LURD is strictly abiding by," Fofana claimed.
There will be mechanisms to monitor and enforce the cease-fire.
Regime forces were firing dozens of tank shells and mortar rounds at neighbourhoods in the opposition stronghold of Homs, hours before the arrival of a first team of UN truce monitors.
We defined what we mean by cease-fire.
Nhial Deng said Khartoum's decision to go ahead with the construction of another oil pipeline and a road in the Western Upper Nile also violated the truce accord.
And then the next morning, by a coincidence, this was the morning - this was the countdown to the cease-fire, 10 minutes before the cease-fire, there was a boom and the rocket went off.
"We are ready to sign the ceasefire tomorrow.
In January 2003, the AU authorized the dispatch of a small military observer mission to monitor the ceasefire.
He recalled that the acceptance of the referendum was the basis of the cease-fire agreement and called on the international community to take a firm stance towards Morocco who he accused of "rebellion against international legality".
"Anything that can help humanitarian access is to be welcomed," said OLS spokeswoman Gillian Wilcox commenting on the ceasefire.
If both sides fail to respect the ceasefire, what is the U.S.'s next course of action?"
"The fact that there is no cease-fire should not have the effect that everyone is marking time," he says, "That would be dangerous.
It is emerging that the only way the truce can hold is for the key players to push for the immediate convening of the dormant NARC Summit, seen as the only viable platform for continuous consultations and understanding between the warring parties.
And we call for an immediate cease-fire."
Meanwhile, fighting in the bush appeared to be continuing to the very limit of the ceasefire.
But the agreement has been broken by cease-fire violations on all sides.
Second, no private citizen in Colombia can arrange truces or cease-fires that hinder the actions of the armed forces, which are fulfilling their constitutional duty with the support of all Colombians.
Nujoma said a ceasefire would then be signed separately by the rebels without a face-to-face meeting between their leaders and Kabila.
A rebel spokesman denied any attack was planned, saying his forces were respecting a freeze on the movement of troops and materials agreed in the ceasefire accord.
This after that ceasefire fell apart.
To assist in implementing a cease-fire, the council said it is prepared to consider "the active involvement of the United Nations, in coordination with OAU, including through concrete, sustainable and effective measures."
The Liberian Government indicated that to talk about ceasefire with the LURD would suggest a parity between it and the rebels.
Hamas remained faithful to a 16-month cease-fire, Cook said, "during which time Israel fired hundreds of missiles into Gaza, ran an illegal raid into Gaza to capture two Palestinian civilians, blockaded the [Gaza] Strip for many months to prevent food and medicine reaching the population, and [withheld] tax revenues of the Hamas government so that it could not govern Gaza.
U.S. President Bill Clinton also welcomed the ceasefire agreement and urged rebel leaders to support it.
Again, the first step will be to try to extend the cease-fire beyond 72-hour to see what we can be resolved.
Sayed, whose letter was circulated by Polisario's representative in New York, said Polisario was willing to cooperate with Baker's efforts "aimed at breaking the peace plan's prolonged deadlock and converting the fragile ceasefire between the Sahrawi and Moroccan armies into a just and lasting peace."
"We can't trust the ceasefire to hold unless there is an early political agreement on what to do next," Greenstock said.
Delegates had expected a ceasefire deal after Vieira and Mane arrived together to meet regional presidents.
"You will recall that for more than three weeks, LURD's forces were observing the cease-fire, at which time Mr. Taylor ordered his forces to attack our positions," h enoted. "
At both the Dakar and New York meetings, the Contact Group called for a "ceasefire, conditions for credible free and fair elections, respect for the rule of law, human rights and good governance."
The feud with the White House worsened when Mr. Wright began to hold cease-fire talks in Washington with Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega and Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, the archbishop of Managua, who was seen as a possible intermediary in the dispute.
Regrettably, we cannot be fully satisfied with this situation because the ceasefire is often violated, and we are aware of these facts," Karasin said, adding that OSCE Chief Monitor for Ukraine Ertugrul Apakan also mentioned these facts in this reports.
A 5,537-strong U.N. force is supposed to protect the more than 100 unarmed military observers now deployed in the vast country to oversee the cease-fire and the withdrawal of foreign troops.
"Even during the period of cease-fire, if the government does not stop the killings of the sons and daughters of the nation, the oppression and the antinational acts, we will be compelled to launch an even more deadly and decisive war."
UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has called a ceasefire to enable the talks to proceed.
ELN has consistently rejected government demands it declare a cease-fire and stop kidnapping as a precondition for talks.
Nzo said the talks were aimed at "ensuring that the belligerents respect the call for an immediate ceasefire".
But Buyoya's demand for a cease-fire could hamper the floundering peace process.
The FARC has rejected both sending their comrades abroad and a cease-fire.
Traditionally, peacekeeping meant the deployment of a military force, with ceasefires a central task.
Ban also described 479-strong MINURSO's continued presence as "indispensable for the maintenance of the cease-fire" in the phosphate-rich territory.
Jonah, leading a team from the U.N., the Organisation of African Unity and the Islamic Conference Organisation said a U.N. military expert had remained in Mogadishu to work on the technical details of a truce.
The JCCC observation posts would exchange information about ceasefire violations, the news agency added.
But it fails to mention that this is one of a number of "Specific Guarantees for the period from the ceasefire to the holding of elections".
President Buyoya's spokesman, Appolinaire Gahungu, was quoted as saying Buyoya was ready to meet rebel leaders for direct cease-fire negotiations.
And there would be cooperation on monitoring compliance with the accord with existing entities - such as the international Joint Monitoring Commission which oversees the ceasefire in the Nuba Mountains area and the IGAD-led Verification Monitoring Team which assesses the situation in the south.
Israel is saying, "Look, we're ready for a ceasefire right now, but there can't be any conditions on that, that's a big divide because one has a condition, the other is saying our    condition is no condition.
Abubakar then said the ceasefire could be signed on Monday, but that remains a tenuous prospect given both Taylor's position regarding the rebels - whom he has referred to as the "worst criminals in this country" and the guerrillas' demands.
"Certainly if our preconditions are fulfilled, we think talks about a ceasefire will be very quick," Ndiho added.
In early October, the United States and the Soviet Union indicated their willingness to police a cease-fire and elections.
Mr. Taylor's government appeared to retreat further from his pledge to cede power as part of a truce accord.
The ceasefire talks come as the Hutu rebels are demanding the release of all political prisoners and the dismantling of so-called "regroupment camps" before they can negotiate an end to their guerrilla war.
The rebels have said they want an immediate agreement on human rights, which would include investigation of war crimes largely carried out by the army, before fixing the date of a ceasefire.
It is also unfortunate that the cease-fire has been breached, leading to abuses.
Questioning of potential jurors is scheduled to begin Wednesday in New Brunswick, N.J. WORLD SYRIAN FORCES MASS OUTSIDE REBEL STRONGHOLD: Syrian tanks and troops massed Monday outside the resistance stronghold of Homs for a possible ground assault that one activist warned could unleash a new round of fierce and bloody urban combat even as the Red Cross tried to broker a cease-fire to allow emergency aid in.
[Bisimwa] How can we raise the issue of cease-fire at a structure which involves only member states?
KHARTOUM, Sudan, Jan. 9 -- The Voice of America issued the following story: By Noel King The governor of the U.S. state of New Mexico, Bill Richardson, visited Sudan's Darfur region on Tuesday in an attempt to get holdout Darfur rebel groups to agree to a 60-day ceasefire with the Sudanese government.
He said, "Once the UN observers are on the ground, it will make it easier to identify who actually is violating the cease-fire."
The African brokered peace agreement was unusual as it provided military guarantees - protection for politicians and rebel leaders, and troops to monitor the ceasefire and disarmament process.
"We don't trust ceasefires."
[Presenter] The minister in charge of the peace process, Mr Ambroise Niyonsaba, on his part stressed that the setting up of the transitional institutions was temporary, adding the a cease-fire was an important issue.
Negotiators left some key matters up in the air, such as how to enforce a cease-fire, the timing of troop withdrawals and the deployment of monitors and peacekeepers, said Eric Silwamba, minister of state in the office of President Frederick Chiluba.
The United States has proposed sending someone to monitor the short-lived ceasefire.
The two Hutu rebel groups did not sign, insisting that what they call political prisoners be freed first and that a cease-fire must be in place.
Army chiefs of ECOMOG contributing countries met before the summit to ask for more funds, a new ceasefire deadline and better logistical support.
"All parties should return to the negotiation table to overcome remaining hurdles to the signing of a final, principled peace agreement, which would establish a permanent ceasefire and hold accountable those who have committed serious crimes," Jen Psaki, spokeswoman for the State Department, said in a statement late Saturday.
As ceasefires followed by violations intensify, Taylor will concentrate on mopping out his destabilization strategies - more amputations, more looting, more displacement, and more refugees.
The attacks in Equateur were mainly on towns and localities around Bansankusu, which the army said earlier this month had been captured by rebels in violation of ceasefire accords.
The main goal of the talks is to arrange a ceasefire.
However, the resolution stated that a formal cease-fire would be effective once Iraq had notified the UN secretary-general and the Security Council of its acceptance of the terms of the resolution.
Two Hutu rebel groups have refused to sign the ceasefire.
Shaykh Bashir briefed Shaykh Qadrawi on how efforts by the Organization for Somali Religious Scholars to mediate between Somali groups are proceeding and the attainment of a ceasefire in the country.
The EU Declaration called on the armed movements CNDD-FDD and FNL to immediately and unconditionally cease hostilities, to join the peace process without further delay, and to accept to negotiate a ceasefire agreement with the government army.
The rebels have not participated in the peace process, and the accord does not provide for a cease-fire.
Both leaders have refused to agree to a cease-fire, suggesting each was trying to secure battlefield gains before negotiating a truce--even at the cost of more turmoil and potential disruption of oil flows.
Leonard Nyangoma, chairman of the Hutu CNDD political party, also said the issue of the transitional leadership could not be resolved until a cease-fire has been agreed because the two issues linked.
Military sources now say the report was delayed and watered down because defence chiefs feared that an already overstretched US might be-come bogged down in yet another conflict and marines might take unacceptable casualties imposing a ceasefire on marauding gunmen.
With the deadline now expired, no ceasefire negotiations have begun, according to a rebel source.
UN peacekeeping missions were few and, generally, served only as interpositional forces to police ceasefires agreed to by the warring parties in order to give the combatants time and space to find and implement a political solution.
A ceasefire has held since then and the rebels have moved increasingly toward political rather than military action.
Several previous summits have also failed to bring any closer a ceasefire in Africa's third largest country.
Uganda's security concerns along the shared border with the DRC should be properly discussed and addressed before going on to the mapping out of a detailed cease-fire agreement, he said.
The truce has largely held firm but diplomatic efforts to bring about a solution acceptable to both sides have fallen flat.
He said he had a conversation with "another foreign minister from another country" and received indications that the Houthis might be willing to participate in a cease-fire as well.
In addition, the peace commissioner said that the authorities would not arrest ELN members during the ceasefire and would take measures to allow the ELN to hold an internal convention to decide on how its members would return to civil life.
"We gave priority to compromises and consensus in order not to be an obstacle to peace...This is why we approved this document and why we are ready to sign," he told Reuters late on Wednesday, after the draft ceasefire agreement was signed by defence and foreign ministers of the warring states in Lusaka.
As required by the ceasefire agreement, a joint verification team was deployed to Monrovia soon after the ceasefire was signed, but its activity stalled with the resumption of fighting.
Mr. Kabila has yet to authorize the planned deployment of 5,537 United Nations monitors and troops in support of a fragile ceasefire.
Two days of talks to end the bloody civil war ended Friday in Freetown, Sierra Leone, without progress toward a cease-fire, but rebel delegates pledged to return to negotiations next week.
Mr Taylor accused Ulimo last week of attacking NPFL positions in Gbarnga in breach of the ceasefire.
But the de facto leader of the rebels, Riek Machar would not immediately commit to a truce.
---- VIENNA - The European Union and NATO renewed calls for a ceasefire in the stricken Serbian province of Kosovo amid mounting western concern about the fate of thousands of refugees displaced by five months of fighting.
Peace Mission Colombian President Alvaro Uribe has given Church leaders the go-ahead to hold preliminary peace talks with both the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and lesser rebel organisation, the National Liberation Army (ELN) with the aim of securing a ceasefire.
He said there was need for increased consultations on power sharing and that the secretariat was looking for specialists in cease-fire to act as resource persons.
We support cease-fire.
They must also forfeit illegally acquired assets, like land, comply with a cease-fire and be held accountable for crimes.
Today's meeting is expected to discuss cease-fire violations, cooperation with the UN observer nations and financing of activities related to cease-fire [word indistinct].
The ceasefire agreement provided the avenue for talks on the political future of the country, as that portion of the accord ended the state of hostility.
When the ICGL chair, Uganda's President Museveni, had negotiated a ceasefire that was holding, the UN rose to call for sanctions against M23 leaders, ignoring the ongoing ICGLR initiative.
It is only after major negotiations that we have been able to reach peace and cease-fire agreements, notably the Global Cease-fire Agreement.
The two parties should urgently implement the Baker Plan, and avoid any violation of the ceasefire or any acts that would hinder MINURSO in the performance of its duties.
Speaking on Friday, Eagleton said "any hostile action by either party would constitute a gross violation of the ceasefire, and would only serve to undermine the ongoing efforts toward achieving an early, durable and agreed resolution of the dispute."
So the ceasefire can happen with the rebels, and that's the first agenda.
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni said Uganda would not complete a planned withdrawal from the town without a U.N.-supervised cease-fire.
"Under the commend of Major General Bernd S. Lubenik of Austria, the component continued to monitor the ceasefire between the Royal Moroccan Army and the Frente POLISARIO forces, which remains calm and there have been no indications that either side intends to resume hostilities in the near future," he said.
Dia Wamba declined to say if the RCD would attend but said it was pointless to discuss constitutional and electoral reform - the main topics - without working on a ceasefire deal.
Since the signing of a ceasefire accord to end the war in Africa's third largest country, a number of initiatives to enhance trade between the two countries have been annnounced, as the government sought to justfiy a war which an independent opinion poll showed was unpopular.
"We're not threatening to break the truce," Villalobos told reporters.
Chiluba, who has shuttled across the continent in a bid to secure a ceasefire in the DRC, was nonetheless upbeat about the accord.
A formal truce agreement could be signed by the end of the week, Foreign Minister Addo Akufo-Addo told reporters.
For this truce to work, we have to stay apart," he said.
The cease-fire called for a referendum on whether the stretch of desert south of Morocco would become independent or part of Morocco.
Government soldiers and rebel forces are reported to be moving toward the cease-fire line and a surrounding buffer zone, currently monitored by 10,000 peacekeeping troops from France and the United Nations.
According to Bizimungu, the cease-fire will permit the safe evacuation of people taking refuge in churches and monasteries.
The Ivorian national army, the FANCI and the rebel fighters, started withdrawing men and weapons who had been positioned too close the ceasefire line that is manned by French soldiers, on Saturday.
RANKO VILOVIA (Croatia) said the durability of ceasefires and peace agreements depended on the readiness to rebuild basic institutions and address the root causes of conflict.
We were told that the release of the Chibok girls and a ceasefire were imminent.
Cheney said during his trip that he would be willing to meet with Arafat if a cease-fire was put in place.
CEASEFIRE COLLAPSES WITHIN THREE HOURS AFTER ISRAELI SOLDIER CAPTURED A 72-hour humanitarian ceasefire, supposed to pave the way to a peace deal, collapsed into savage violence within three fateful hours after the Israeli military accused Hamas of breaking the truce with the apparent capture of a soldier and killing two others in an ambush using a suicide bomber.
All parties including the Dafur rebels must respect the cease-fire and allow the free movement of humanitarian workers and supplies," the noted.
"Calling for a ceasefire at a time when the Liberian government has already broken the back of a very large attack in Gbarnga, in Arthington and in Klay, will only give the terrorists the opportunity to regroup and attack Liberia," BBC quoted Liberian Information Minister Reginald Goodridge as saying.
The municipality is undoubtedly safer now than it was prior to the cease-fire.
If the UN leaves, however, it could signal the end of the cease-fire, even if technically that's not the case.
He also issued a countrywide order to members of his group to uphold the truce.
Little progress has been made in resolving the deep ideological divisions and, despite the ceasefire, few see a quick end to the fighting.
Moreover, many people will be brought into play to supervise the implementation of this first phase of the cease-fire.
HAVANA (AP) - Colombia's second-largest guerrilla group is ready to "immediately" begin talks to reach a cease-fire with their country's government, a top rebel leader said Monday.
No date had been agreed for a conference to formalise the ceasefire and settle outstanding disputes, he said.
Psaki's statement urged all parties to return to negotiations "to overcome remaining hurdles to the signing of a final, principled peace agreement, which would establish a permanent ceasefire and hold accountable those who have committed serious crimes".
Calls by two summits of African leaders for a ceasefire in Zaire have been ignored and Kinshasa has rejected negotiations with the rebels, who launched their revolt in October.
Despite calls for a cease-fire, fighting continued this week around the capital.
"We are hoping that they will sign today but before that we still have to come to an agreement on an unconditional ceasefire," he told AFP on condition of anonymity.
French troops and west African peacekeepers are policing a ceasefire line between rebels holding more than half the world's leading cocoa producer and government forces based in the south of the country.
This is not the same as a permanent ceasefire," SPLA spokesman John Luk told Reuters.
She said Zuma will also report back on efforts to get the belligerents in the tiny central African nation's eight-year civil war into signing a ceasefire.
But increasingly, the option that's being discussed and reported is perhaps and extension of this ceasefire -- Kristie.
But there is still no way to monitor that truce and both sides have traded blame over violations.
Now the mediators are trying to get a formal cease-fire signed by the end of the week by envoys of the warring parties gathered in the town of Akosombo.
"By refusing to sign a cease-fire, Kinshasa is declaring that it is ready to resume war," he said, adding: "We don't understand how we can be involved in a peace process here in Kampala when there is a [government] troop build-up back home."
"Once an agreement has been negotiated, there may be a role for the peace support mission, as a neutral third party, to observe and possibly monitor the ceasefire through the deployment of a relatively small, unarmed observer force."
The ECOWAS proposal alluded to had called for a cease-fire between the rebels and the government, but the Minister of Information had reacted, saying that a cease-fire between the Government and rebels is tantamount to equating the Government with the LURD rebels.
Since `Ceasefire," Salim has performed in places like Stockholm, Barcelona, and Washington, D.C. Jal's rising stardom and humanitarian activism took him to performances at Live 8 and Nelson Mandela's 90th Birthday Concert.
Indeed, for him, all the issues which remain unsettled, namely, the reservations [made during the signing], the technical corrections and the cease-fire could be sorted out within a short time, but the question of the setting up of transition institutions must be settled very soon in order to implement all the other provisions in the accord.
"This is one of those rare situations that even though the cease-fire has broken down, both sides genuinely seem to want the international force to come in,.
Morjane said that since then, respect for the ceasefire had improved.
We don't give out the exact number for security reasons, but there have been successive departures, authorized and ordered departures that have reduced them to a small number of people who are needed there to handle security, administration, but also the diplomacy of the situation to keep working the situation, try to get the ceasefire to hold, try to keep the parties on track.
Somali sources attending the conference told IRIN it was up to the newly-created ceasefire monitoring committee to "start dealing with those who violate the agreement they signed".
What the Somali need is a national ceasefire that leads them to a genuinely organised election, if a way can be found to negotiate that.
The U.S. government sincerely wishes to promote a peaceful resolution of the armed conflict in DRC and fully supports a ceasefire, a stance Museveni agrees to.
In October, the U.N. Security Council extended a peacekeeping mission that for 15 years has monitored a cease-fire between Moroccan troops and Polisario rebels in the sparsely populated, mineral-rich region.
A statement by ULIMO's main faction, based in Sierra Leone, said it would observe the truce called from midnight on Tuesday but reserved the right to defend itself if attacked.
The talks aim to reach a permanent ceasefire deal in Africa's longest civil war, which has killed around two million people.
The slogan alludes to the time, after a cease-fire, when the guerrillas would be expected to demobilize, a possibility they have largely refused to discuss.
The rebel groups have not signed a peace deal which was struck in Arusha, Tanzania, in August 2000, and all efforts to draw them into a ceasefire agreement have failed so far.
The summit ended last night with the leaders of the summit agreeing to speed up their disengagement plan as provided for in the Lusaka cease-fire agreement...
The cease-fire we will mercifully enjoy during this period of mourning should also serve to make the various combatants pause for a little reflection.
Colombia's government was awaiting a response to Thursday's ruling from the paramilitaries, whose cease-fire helped bring the country's homicide rate to a near two-decade low.
According to Fall, in his conversation with chairman Sheikh Sharif, the UN Special Representative stressed the need to respect the ceasefire and to maintain a dialogue.
But Uribe has consistently refused to provide such guarantees, saying only that extradition orders are suspended for as long as the warlords respect a cease-fire and stay in peace talks.
The truce was signed in Lusaka on July 10 by six African countries involved in the complex conflict, but rebel groups did not immediately do so due to a split in their ranks.
19 April 1991 Reuters News LBA English (c) 1991 Reuters Limited MEXICO CITY, April 18, Reuter - Leftist Salvadorean rebels on Thursday accused the Salvadorean government of trying to block a possible ceasefire accord during the closing stages of a three-week round of peace talks in Mexico.
A UN peacekeeping mission, known as UNOCI, has been stationed in Cote d'Ivoire since 2004 to help ensure a ceasefire and pave the way for permanent peace and democratic elections.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) NIC ROBERTSON, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): With the effects of conflict here becoming part of daily life, no water in this town because rebels controlling the dam refuse to allow engineers to fix it, NATO Secretary-General George Robertson's visit will raise hopes the current cease-fire, now turning into a stalemate, can be parlayed into something better.
[Bouhali] I would remind you that we have never violated the ceasefire, and the one-year extension of MINURSO's mandate through April 2009 is a strange decision.
Polisario leader Abdelaziz warned last week his organisation considered itself released from all previous ceasefire obligations "the day the rally crosses the Moroccan-Saharan frontier."
So we're still exploring a local ceasefire.
Somali sources attending the conference told IRIN it was up to the ceasefire monitoring committee to "start dealing with those who violate the agreement they signed".
For the United Nations, it would end its second longest dispute after Cyprus, one which even at low level will cost $23 million this year for the 230-strong force in the area keeping the ceasefire.
The Ceasefire Political Commission, Joint Defense Board, and Ceasefire Joint Military Committee were also established as part of the security arrangements of the CPA.
The Arusha agreement does not include provisions for a ceasefire.
While ceasefires remained central to any peacekeeping operation, enforcing fragile ceasefires was difficult.
Mexico, which joins the United Nations Security Council this month as one of its 10 rotating non-permanent members, "reiterates to the parties in conflict its appeal for an end to hostilities, an immediate ceasefire," the foreign ministry said.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that Hamas showed it could not be trusted after it violated other cease-fire efforts.
France had beefed up its military presence from 700 to about 1,000 soldiers to protect its nationals before the cease-fire; the former colonial power then agreed to Gbagbo's request to temporarily monitor the truce.
"Rebel groups are attacking us; we are not seeing ceasefire from the other side," Aguer told IPS, noting clashes north of Bor, the capital of Jonglei; and south of Malakal, the capital of Upper Nile.
Mancuso alleged that Colombia's current defense minister met with him and Castao twice, proposing to the AUC on one of those occasions a cease-fire that would also include the main leftist insurgency, the FARC, to improve conditions for holding an assembly with a mandate to overhaul Colombia's political institutions.
The poignant question is what needs to be done to gain momentum at the stalling Addis Ababa peace talks, demanding an immediate ceasefire?
The peace process has been marked by a string of failed ceasefire deals, and the latest accord was only signed after more robust threats of international sanctions.
Diplomats said Mr Taylor would come under pressure to accept a negotiated ceasefire at a peace conference due to take place in Banjul next Monday.
The Burundian peace accord was signed by 19 negotiating parties almost one year ago, however, implementation has so far been blocked by the lack of a ceasefire between the government and two main Hutu rebel groups, CNDD-FDD and FNL, and the lack of consensus on the transition leadership.
According to the experts, "the rebels expanded their control over Rutshuru territory with extensive foreign support in July 2012 and have recently taken advantage of an informal ceasefire to enhance alliances and command proxy operations elsewhere."
The regional force has been mandated by the United Nations to monitor a ceasefire line, which for the moment excludes the far west.
While the sides have yet to begin substantive talks, the current ceasefire is holding and the parties continue to express commitment to a dialogue.
---MORONI - Rival militia groups fighting for control of the tiny Comoran island of Anjouan in the Indian Ocean maintained an uneasy ceasefire after a reconciliation meeting ended in deadlock.
This was preceded by immense military pressure of cease-fire violations when the rebel forces engaged government troops in Monrovia on three separate occasions, capturing strategic areas around the capital with catastrophic humanitarian consequences.
The Security Council authorized the French force to protect foreign nationals and help enforce the shaky truce on Feb. 4, 2003.
He added Kabila was also violating the ceasefire by using high altitude aircraft to bomb suspected rebel positions, but the attacks were largely ineffective.
"The ceasefire must be implemented by all sides," Sheikh Sharif said.
Nearly 4,000 French and 1,400 West African troops are currently monitoring the cease-fire.
The rebels, who have refused to declare a cease-fire and enter into peace talks, have also committed widespread abuses.
The cease-fire announced after the first round of the Djibouti process failed to halt the fighting, and the renewal of it is unlikely to fare any better.
"Apart from the ceasefire and dialogue proposed by the leaders, there are also concerns for refugees and civilians," said Mufti.
During an hour-long question and answer session with lawmakers, Ban also reiterated that a ceasefire in Syria was "very fragile" and he urged the Syrian regime to allow U.N. observers full and free access to all parts of the country.
... "Cease-fires have been negotiated in all of the five major conflicts that were under way at the beginning of the administration.
Without ownership of the processes by the people of the country, all you have is a ceasefire.
Meanwhile the National Liberation Army (ELN), Colombia's second-largest guerrilla force, is seeking a cease-fire with the FARC and calling on a pooling of their forces.
Kabila's son, Joseph, inherited the presidency and has welcomed something his father repeatedly held up - the deployment of U.N. troops charged with monitoring a fragile cease-fire that has only now begun to take hold.
Since 1991 the MFDC has signed several ceasefires, all of which collapsed.
* The government in Freetown says it is ready to agree to a cease-fire with the rebels.
(END VIDEOTAPE)    COOPER: And the cease-fire as it stands now supposed to last for 72 hours.
Although the government said it is baffled by the sudden calls for ceasefire, which Information Minister Reginald Goodridge said suggests a parity between the LURD rebels, an NPP release yesterday quoted Chairman Allen as saying that the pronouncement of the ceasefire by the West African subregion will be a reasonable and dependable factor upon which the Government can reassure electorates of its concern for their well being.
He told a counterterrorism conference in Bogota that FARC must first declare a verifiable cease-fire and that he wouldn't accept any "new tricks".
Early this week, each side accused the other of breaking the truce but neither has spoken of formally abandoning it.
5, Col. 1 English c. 1993 New York Times Company Government and rebel representatives abandon latest round of talks aimed at ending Guatemala's 32-year civil war; talks are third consecutive round to end in stalemate, but these ended with each side accusing other of setting stage for fiercer fighting in war that is thought to have claimed at least 100,000 lives; Roman Catholic Bishop Rodolfo Quezada Toruno, mediator in talks, says both sides must become more flexible to reach preliminary accords on cease-fire and on safeguarding human rights (M
I wish to strongly state here that given the current situation developing on the ground, the government will impress on the [peace accord] signatories, the mediator, the regional [leaders] and the international community that the establishment of transitional institutions will be effective when there is a cease-fire.
Khartoum has demanded a nationwide ceasefire as its price for going back to Machakos, but the SPLA has said it will only halt attacks when the talks resume and for as long as they last.
On Monday, President Yoweri Museveni told the press in Kabale that Bemba should stop getting excited about breaking the cease-fire.
"There's a need for reconstruction, to support the U.N. effort of monitoring a ceasefire and to support human rights monitoring.
They met again last Sunday to observe the implementation of the cease-fire.
Under the terms of the deal, a new government is to be set up within five weeks and a ceasefire zone that divides the middle of the country between east and west should be dismantled over 10 months.
Another armed Islamist group, the Al-shabaab movement, which did not take part in the peace talks, has not made any comments on the cease-fire deal.
According to all the analysts, dumping the cease-fire in order to run the country for 18 months is throwing the baby out with the bath water...
Even without the involvement of the rebels, prospects for a ceasefire look slim.
The United States has consistently supported the cease-fire and the UN's efforts at finding a peaceful settlement.
Whether the ceasefire's holding?
The government's latest truce is scheduled to end in October.
A 16-year-war with the Sahrawi nationalist Polisario Front ensued, ending with a ceasefire and an agreement to hold a UN-sponsored referendum on independence.
The FMLN has said that if reform to the country's 1983 constitution can be agreed upon by April 30 this year, then a ceasefire may be possible by the end of May.
But that mission depends on a viable ceasefire.
The ELN  has pledged to release its hostages once a formal  ceasefire has been agreed with the government.
The Third Geneva Convention is clear in stating that as soon as a cease-fire is implemented, the release of prisoners of war must be immediate and global.
The ceasefire has been repeatedly violated, and apart from about 250 military observers, the U.N. mission has still not been deployed, mainly due to obstacles raised by Kabila.
Mandela at the weekend announced that rival political groups had agreed on the composition of a transitional government ahead of a cease-fire.
The Council established UNOCI in 2004 to help ensure a ceasefire and pave the way for permanent peace and democratic elections after civil war split the country into a Government-ruled south and a rebel-controlled north seven years ago.
"We continue to hope the parties will find a way to secure a quick suspension of hostilities, pending the negotiation of a permanent cease-fire," he added.
But Taylor ultimately fought to a draw, signed a cease-fire and won a presidential election in 1997.
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said the contract was approved because the United Nations said it did not damage the ceasefire in force there.
The peace accord, signed by the government, the National Assembly and 17 political parties, calls for an ethnically balanced legislature and army, but it does not include provisions for a cease-fire.
Other issues on the agenda are security arrangements, rights abuses and ultimately a permanent cease-fire.
For humanitarian assistance to arrive quickly, all combatants, especially the military forces of the government and the LURD and MODEL rebel groups, must stop fighting and restore and respect the cease-fire.
He said the EU acknowledges that some progress has been made toward a political solution since the last Lusaka regional meeting and encourages all efforts to achieve a military standstill, a cease-fire and political negotiations aimed at a political resolution of the conflict.
"We want to enable ECOWAS to get in and help create the conditions necessary for the cease-fire to hold," Bush said.
Before the gang truce, El Salvador had among the highest murder rates globally (66 per 100,000 inhabitants, second only to Honduras's 82.3 per 100,000 inhabitants) recording on average 14 murders per day.
TOFIG F. MUSAYEV ( Azerbaijan) said peacekeeping had evolved from its traditional role of monitoring ceasefires to a more complex, multidimensional institution.
The task of the defense ministers meeting was to establish the modalities for effecting an immediate cease-fire and a mechanism for monitoring compliance with the cease-fire provisions, especially those relating to the withdrawal of foreign forces from the DRC.
"Existing ceasefire arrangements do not envisage such operations in a war zone, and consequently the Saharawi army must carefully consider its position and response if these inflammatory activities proceed," the group said.
Museveni extended a one-week ceasefire offer to the rebels on Friday, on condition that they stop attacking civilians and the army, and gather in designated areas.
The agreement has also been crippled by lack of a ceasefire between the Tutsi-led government and Hutu rebels, with the fighting in Burundi escalating in recent months.
If the Pretoria communique, had condemned the rebellion, it would have been much easier to work on the cease-fire provisions of the communique.
Analysts have observed that Mr Dinka is visiting Bujumbura at a time when there is a deadlock (and tension in some areas) on two crucial issues in the implementation of the Arusha accord, namely, the appointment of transitional leadership, and cease-fire.
Their vaguely outlined goal will be to support a future west African peacekeeping force as it attempts to enforce a ceasefire, long since abandoned, to end nearly five years of fighting.
In a resolution adopted by consensus, the 53-member state body also appealed for a ceasefire to be agreed and for all foreign forces to withdraw from the country, formerly Zaire.
U.S. envoy Anthony Zinni was to resume security talks with Israeli and Palestinian officials on Sunday, and officials from both sides held out hope of making progress toward a cease-fire.
I, therefore, urge you to accept the ceasefire proposed by ECOWAS, the deployment of an international stabilization force and a negotiated political settlement out of the current crisis.
The U.N. Security Council, in a brief statement, only called on all parties to respect an often-broken cease-fire, refrain from military action and ensure the safety of U.N. personnel, which include over 100 in Kinshasa and an equal number in 13 other places around the vast country.
The RPF spokesman in Kampala said only the monitoring by the observer force could prove who had broken the ceasefire.
Therefore, the president says, the government of Colombia, which had approved his extradition, has suspended it, as long as he meets the requirements of the cease-fire.
On Thursday the United States joined the calls for a ceasefire.
The proposal includes a cease-fire, the disarmament of all militia groups and some government security forces, followed by elections.
On Nov. 4, he launched an attack on the rebels who control the north of his country, breaking a two-year ceasefire.
The ceasefire was originally expected to be signed on Saturday but the rebels, in an about-turn, said they would only sign on if Taylor resigned.
The government, which is encouraged by the civil society, had refused to sign this cease-fire, alleging that the issue rather falls in line with the prerogatives of the heads of state of the Great Lakes Region.
TRUCE HOLDING Taylor's commanders said they would silence their guns on Friday after the rebels ordered a ceasefire, but military sources said they kept up a search in Monrovia on Saturday for any rebels cut off in the retreat.
The verification team was approved under the July 10 Lusaka cease-fire agreement which was endorsed by six African countries.
The rebels have accused Kabila of trying to escalate the war and have said there is no chance of an early ceasefire while Kabila refuses to talk to them.
After several attempts to impose a lasting cease-fire, the local population is gradually resuming normal life, but we know that we need to do more.
Bush urges respect US president George W Bush urged rival groups in Macedonia to respect a faltering ceasefire.
The communique added, however, that "the government is ready to continue the peace process with the rest of the participants at the table, as long as they comply with the cease-fire."
The calls for a regional protection force comes amid accusations of ongoing violations of the ceasefire agreement by the Machar-led forces.
The first such meeting a year ago resulted in the creation of a U.N. observer force to monitor the cease-fire.
Already, his reluctance to compromise, even after the shifty Friday ceasefire, is blamed on Uganda, that has reinforced the assumption Kiir's survival depends on this war.
That would cite a lack of progress on the U.N. talks on a truce.
Meanwhile, government negotiator Amin Hassan Omer claimed JEM had honoured neither the ceasefire nor an agreement to release government prisoners.
But the commitment of those people over there to the cease-fire, I don't believe in it.
ELLIOTT: Now, what information do you have that the ceasefire is actually taking effect?
However, the Ugandan troops remained in the country after the deadline expired as both sides exchanged accusations over ceasefire violations, forcing the UN Security Council to intervene.
The proposal includes hammering out a ceasefire, sending humanitarian assistance to the people affected by violence, launching an intra-Yemeni dialog, and establishing a broad-based government participated by all Yemeni factions, according to Zarif.
"It may have been premature to pencil in names when ceasefire negotiations are still going on."
Both sides termed Sunday's talks as exploratory and said substantive issues, notably a ceasefire and elections, would be tackled at the followup meeting in Ivory Coast's political capital Yamoussoukro.
"The ceasefire means nothing.
The eastern rebels denied U.N. peacekeepers permission to deploy in Kisangani on Sunday because U.N. officials refused to condemn cease-fire violations by government forces.
"M23 has been asking for dialogue and ceasefire, but we are being paid by sanctions.
The report presented today includes a detailed summary of the work carried out by OAS experts in the areas of "verifying the cease-fire and cessation of hostilities, verifying demobilization and disarmament, verifying that the armed units have effectively been disbanded and reincorporated into civilian life, and following up on the individual verification or reintegrated combatants."
Adherence to the ceasefire would provide hope for a revitalized disarmament, demobilization and reintegration process.
At the same time, DPKO is preparing plans should a ceasefire take place and the Security Council calls for the involvement of UN peacekeepers.
``We demand ... a true cease-fire.''
Political dialogue should be convince immediately after ceasefire observed, and countries that are taking sides in this conflict should not be allowed to play a role in negotiation, 6.
The talks had been halted earlier Friday after the Houthi delegation suspended all meetings with the internationally recognized government in protest over cease-fire violations.
The United Nations wants a cease-fire to permit shipments of food and medicine into the country.
If a definitive accord could not be reached in that time, he proposed that both sides agree to declare cease-fires and that the guerrillas concentrate their forces in designated safety zones in the Guatemalan highlands, where United Nations forces would be asked "to guarantee that there is no provocation by the army."
Elsewhere, six Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire, but the bloodshed did not derail efforts to implement a truce.
Restrepo said the clash violates the cease-fire agreed to by paramilitaries.
No, there are truly no -- RIVERS: There are back-channel negotiations going on with the government, moderates here hoping for a cease-fire.
Given the shaky truce, suspicions remained deep and almost convinced Agathon Rwasa and his Palipehutu-FNL group would not honour the agreement and remain in exile.
Russia's parliament and defence minister, Anatoly Serdyukov, have called for a ceasefire.
If there is a cease-fire agreement, it must be respected by both sides.
If there is no ceasefire, Mahachi hinted that other African countries might send troops to support Kabila's government.
For jobs, there is a handful of Polisario schools and clinics and a guerrilla army immobilised for the past six years by a ceasefire.
Potential obstacles lie ahead as the government and the rebels must hammer out a definition of the cease-fire, particularly over whether it will include a pause in rebels' kidnappings of civilians and attacks on the country's infrastructure.
Steelworker 1st Class Dane C. Hendricks was at a firing range in Mississippi when a ceasefire was abruptly called.
Since then, an uneasy cease-fire has reigned while peace talks have dragged on without resolution.
Some 200 people were killed in the first days of the uprising but a cease-fire was quickly agreed and fighting was replaced by a long-running military and political standoff.
Thursday's Pretoria talks are aimed at trying to convince the Burundian rebels to accept the cease-fire and to also sign the peace agreement to end the bloody civil war to save the people from suffering.
Annan welcomed the ceasefire as the first step towards restoring peace and urged both sides to cooperate fully with the OAU in the envisaged second phase of the proximity talks.
Kabila has ruled out any ceasefire before talks with Mobutu, 66, on his stepping down.
Motlanthe echoed the findings of the Nairobi summit when he said yesterday that SADC was calling "for an immediate ceasefire to allow humanitarian assistance to the displaced people".
But certainly there is a very real sense of urgency here that with all of the instability in this region, there needs to be a cease-fire implemented as soon as possible before this situation escalates out of control.
The idea of a cease-fire has been pressed strongly by the host of the summit, President Oscar Arias Sanchez of Costa Rica, who has described it as the minimum acceptable result of the presidential talks.
He expressed regret that air efforts had been delayed due to "two unfortunate events during the five days of cease-fire" and said: "Firstly, the Saudi side did not honour their commitments and secondly, the UN could not facilitate the delivery of aid due to constant violations of the ceasefire by the Saudis."
The meeting was prepared for the Lusaka summit which was postponed repeatedly for the third time after consultations revealed it was not possible to have a cease-fire agreement signed.
Together, government and society will overcome," Fox said, promising criminals "no quarter, ceasefire or respite."
So far, however, only some 850 AUC fighters have surrendered their weapons and countless cease-fire violations have been reported.
Negotiators for Kiir and Machar said over the weekend that a cease-fire was close at hand.
Well, there may be a truce between the superstars.
In the ceasefire proposal, the government asks that ELN stop hostilities against soldiers and civilians and abandons its practice of bombing the nation's energy infrastructure.
With so many factors at play, the prospects for peace after the expiry of the cease-fire are governed on the one hand by the government's determination to succeed in its efforts to exploit its oil resources and on the other by the equal degree of determination on the part of the rebels to ensure that it fails.
On Wednesday in Lusaka, Burundi's Tutsi president, Major Pierre Buyoya, said the three-year transitional government provided for under Arusha could get under way before a ceasefire agreement was reached with the Forces for National Liberation (FNL) and the Forces for the Defence of Democracy (FDD).
"We call for a ceasefire, and for the M23 to return Goma to DRC authorities and pull back to their July positions."
Vandenbroucke advised the estimated 900 Belgians living in Burundi to respect the ceasefire, not to travel outside the capital and to remain vigilant at all times.
Violations of the truce began on Thursday afternoon when rebels led by Prince Yormie Johnson discovered a large government arms cache in a central warehouse near the Defence Ministry.
The peso starts the session with an appreciation of 0.23% or 3 cents, trading around 13.07 pesos per dollar, where most emerging currencies recorded gains, benefiting from both an adjustment to the loss observed yesterday and from lower risk aversion after Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation and Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, agreed on the steps to establish a ceasefire in the eastern and southeastern Ukraine, which decreased international concern about the conflict that has strained the most the relations between Russia and the West since the Cold War.
"Given the existing circumstances on the ground and in light of my Personal Envoy's continuing efforts, I believe that the presence of MINURSO remains indispensable for the maintenance of the ceasefire" in the Sahara, he said.
The rebels have refused to attend the peace talks, the accord does not provide for a cease-fire and fighting has intensified in recent months.
But the rebels were never part of that peace process, and have refused to agree to a ceasefire unless they are given the chance to take part in comprehensive negotiations on the country's political future.
The diplomats urged the warring parties in the strongest possible terms" to end the fighting and killing immediately, both to respect the ceasefire and stop the terrible" humanitarian consequences.
The United States has offered to have Vice President Dick Cheney meet Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat if Arafat carried out a cease-fire plan.
He said the POLISARIO Front had respected the ceasefire, accepted the Settlement Plan, the Houston Agreements and the Baker Plan.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) RICE: Any cease-fire cannot allow that condition to remain, because I can guarantee you, if you simply look for a cease-fire that -- that acknowledges and freezes the status quo ante, we will be back here in six months again, or in five months, or in nine months, or in a year trying to get another cease-fire because Hezbollah will have decided yet again to try and to use southern Lebanon as a sanctuary to fire against Israel.
"The process is moving much faster and committees on ceasefire and security are now functioning...and we should get a ceasefire agreement before the end of next month," he said.
Rebel delegates left peace talks in Sierra Leone on Friday with a refusal to agree to a ceasefire.
Concerned by the slow pace of progress toward the self-determination referendum, despite the encouraging developments, such as the release of war prisoners by the Frente POLISARIO and the maintenance of the ceasefire, Timor-Leste looked to the leaders of the region for a vision that would unite the peoples and countries of the Maghreb in order to erase the remaining traces of colonialism there.
They called upon the international community to do so to help in the implementation of the Lusaka cease-fire agreement.
Any changes to the agreements would have to be mutually acceptable and remain consistent with the principle that military forces should maintain the status quo during the ceasefire and that MINURSO military observers should be allowed to exercise full freedom of movement, in accordance with basic peacekeeping principles.
They are part of a team of 12 rebel military experts at the talks working on an eventual ceasefire accord which will be implemented once both sides have overcome political differences on the fate of the powerful armed forces and their rebel adversaries in peacetime.
Garcia said a cease-fire agreement would not be included in the final document.
"We believe in peace, we believe in negotations, we even believe in a ceasefire.
Alas, this is not the first ceasefire agreement in Darfur.
The implication of this development, therefore, should be brought to the youths and leaders of both ethnic groups so that they can begin a cease-fire immediately.
The Mission's mandate included Supporting the ceasefire, Observing the disengagement of armed forces; Protecting civilians; Promoting human rights; Supporting reform of the military and police; Promoting the Peace Process and supporting the conduct of national elections.
In a 24 October briefing, however, Mr. Fernandez-Taranco reported that, while steps had been taken by the Ukrainian Government towards decentralization, daily violations of the ceasefire occurred.
Kampala's original plan, which mirrored the AU blueprint, was immediate ceasefire, opening of humanitarian corridors for relief supply to affected people and an all-inclusive political dialogue in which Col. Gaddafi as the country's leader would take part.
Rebel leader Ernest Wamba dia Wamba told Reuters he needed to find out more about a ceasefire deal announced at the weekend by U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the Franco-African Summit in Paris.
"The mission of this force will be to secure the cease-fire, create a separation zone between the belligerents, and prepare the ground for the deployment of the main body of the stabilization force."
According to President Chiluba, a meeting will be called for ministers of defence and foreign affairs to improve on the draft cease-fire in readiness for the heads of state summit.
This is not the first time that La Familia, considered the largest trafficker of synthetic drugs in Mexico, has announced a cease-fire.
Restrepo also demanded that four of the most brutal paramilitary factions immediately start demobilizing their fighters and respect a cease-fire.
PEACE TALKS BETWEEN MYANMAR, ETHNIC REBELS FALL SHORT A push by Myanmar's government to strike an umbrella peace agreement with its myriad armed, ethnic rebel groups failed to achieve a cease-fire accord.
The reported fighting, which could not be independently confirmed, was in apparent violation of the latest cease-fire agreement signed by all sides to the conflict.
The attorney general said credit for the purported reduction in violence should go to Calderon's deployment of more than 30,000 federal police and troops to a dozen of Mexico's states, and that he had seen no information to corroborate media accounts about a cease-fire among the drug lords.
Rebel spokesman Kin-Kiey Mulumba told Reuters the vast country was in a state of war despite the ceasefire signed by all parties in the conflict.
The communique called again for a ceasefire in eastern Zaire and "called upon the parties to the conflict to commit themselves to a negotiated peaceful settlement".
French President Jacques Chirac, in a speech read by Finance Minister Laurent Fabius, made a "pressing and solemn appeal" to the rebels to quickly accept a ceasefire and enter the peace process.
After years of intertwined civil war in the three countries and despite ceasefires, guns and gunmen are easy to find, especially in remote borderlands, and there are fears that freelance fighters still move easily to wherever trouble brews.
President Bush is weighing sending US troops to enforce a truce.
The cease-fire call came in the form of a declaration issued on behalf of the meeting's participants.
West African leaders had given Taylor until midnight Tuesday to observe a cease-fire.
On Sunday, international observers helped restore the cease-fire after a two-hour gunfight, but they were unable to persuade the two sides to stop Monday's battle, which began about 11 a.m. and was continuing sporadically Monday night.
They primarily concluded that the implementation of the agreement could not precede a cease-fire and that the agreement on a cease-fire should come up with solutions to some specific causes of the conflict.
Meanwhile, Marcos has refused to speak to the government's peace commissioner and the EZLN is still technically in a mere cease-fire with the government.
Uribe ordered troops to rescue hostages and demanded an act of "good faith" from the rebels, such as a possible cease-fire.
The focus has been on the ceasefire elements.
Diplomats say that Kinsansha is demanding that the rebels withdraw further north of the city before any ceasefire deal can be signed, but rebels say such a move could deprive them of a "tactical advantage" in case the talks breakdown.
The Security Council strongly underscores to all the Ivorian parties their primary responsibility for observing the ceasefire, in accordance with the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement.
The Gaza cease-fire collapses.
Zuma's office stressed that the general ceasefire agreement being sought is a "key part" for the implementation of the Arusha Agreement for Peace and Reconciliation, signed on 28 August 2000.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN, CNN ANCHOR: Let's talk about a cease-fire.
U.N. spokesman David Wimhurst said he hoped a team of diplomats from the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) would be able to negotiate a ceasefire.
Noting that their resort to armed conflict had greatly complicated the situation, President Moi called upon the Banyamulenge to immediately observe a cease-fire and withdraw so as to assist in advancing the cause of peace.
He said the two major issues hampering implementation of the peace accord were the absence of a cease-fire agreement with dissident Hutu rebels, and the controversial question of who will lead Burundi during a transition pending elections.
A fragile cease-fire is holding in anticipation of U.S. troops.
The meeting is expected to lead to the establishment of a cease-fire and an intervention force observation mission.
10 January 1989 Reuters News LBA English (c) 1989 Reuters Limited DJIBOUTI, Jan 10, Reuter - British Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe ended a tour of the Gulf on Tuesday with a short visit to Djibouti, where he expressed concern over the ceasefire in the Iran-Iraq war.
Cooling-off period delayed as Mideast strikes persist JERUSALEM - After repeated attacks by Palestinians, Israel must review its policy of restraint, Israeli Cabinet ministers said Tuesday, reflecting Israeli exasperation with a shaky six-day-old cease-fire.
The statement says the peacekeepers' task is to reinforce a cease-fire and to create conditions for humanitarian assistance to begin in the country.
[Words indistinct] the cease-fire, the transition, the electoral system are the issues that many are concerned with, although the cease-fire is a source of anxiety for everyone in Burundi.
That was the first time both sides wrote an agreement and people began walking back and forth across the conflict zone, and where there was a ceasefire -- cessation of hostilities -- and that humanitarian aid moved across conflict lines without any impediments at all.
At the same time however, state radio in DRC, Voice of the People, appeared to be suggesting the ceasefire was not yet in force.
He has not violated the ceasefire since he came to power.
"They called for all the parties to respect the cease-fire and to cooperate in efforts to achieve regional stability.
The cease-fire agreement reached in 1999 was consistently violated and only began to take hold following the Jan. 16 assassination of Kabila and the succession to the presidency of his son, Joseph.
Ceasefire violations include not only attacks and recruitment of combatants but also sabotage, kidnapping, harrassment, seizure of arms, illegal arrests and importing new arms or ammunition as well as "hostile" or "defamatory" propaganda.
The delegation is in the region to brief all countries involved in the conflict ahead of the deployment of a 5,500-strong peacekeeping force aimed at monitoring a ceasefire agreed in 1999 but frequently flouted since.
The fact of the matter is that such a task remains the responsibility of the UN Commission in Geneva, aside from the fact that the mission's tasks, which are originally connected to consolidating the implementation of the ceasefire, are set by resolutions issued by the Security Council.
Despite mounting international pressure, the White House says conditions are not ripe for a cease-fire, and U.S. officials expect Israeli military operations to continue for another week, maybe more.
Ceasefire between Myanmar Government and RCSS group (Nhan dan, p.8).
That's what motivated them to actually go ahead with this cease-fire.
The Arusha agreement does not include provisions for a cease-fire.
The second is to make sure that noboby would take advantage of the crisis and would respect the terms of the ceasefire," Ajello said.
Peace commissioner Jorge Madrazo named a nine-member group to monitor the tenuous cease-fire that has been in place since Jan. 12.
Nevertheless, the ability of the truce to endure remains somewhat unclear.
"I think that they'll see that Wamba is nothing and has no troops, and that Ilunga really heads the movement and is ready to sign (the ceasefire) on our behalf," Mende said.
This is why I believe that LDP must not be hoodwinked into a 'fake' truce.
Members of the Security Council reiterate their call to end the violence immediately and enable the continuation of the political transition, particularly through a ceasefire in the Werfashana area, as well as in Benghazi and other parts of the country.
"The slayings were also crueler and on a larger scale" during this period, the daily said, but did note a tapering off of violence in July and August, supposedly due to a truce among Mexico's warring drug cartels.
Israel launched the offensive late Thursday after becoming increasingly exasperated with unrelenting rocket fire from Gaza on its cities, especially following Hamas' rejection of an Egyptian cease-fire plan earlier in the week.
Seekie said ULIMO forces would not agree to a ceasefire until Taylor agrees to lay down his arms.
A cease-fire has been maintained shortly after the uprising but hundreds have been killed in initial fighting and subsequent violence.
The regional intervention force known as ECOMOG will remain in charge of security in the country, while the U.N. force will focus on monitoring adherence to the cease-fire agreement, disarming the combatants, and ensuring the delivery of humanitarian aid.
The leftist rebels, who have refused to declare a cease-fire and enter into peace talks, have also committed widespread abuses.
The Palestinians sought clarifications at talks with Zinni because of concerns that the bridging proposal diverges from a ceasefire plan drawn up by CIA Director George Tenet last year but never been put into effect.
The rebels are not involved in the Arusha peace process and are still fighting on the ground, although they have been holding separate talks with a view to a ceasefire.
The ceasefire has since been broken several times and pressure is growing on Washington to lead a peacekeeping mission to the war-torn country, which was founded in the nineteenth century by freed American slaves as a haven for peace.
Last week, the United Nations Security Council warned it could impose sanctions on the warring sides, due to repeated violations of the ceasefire, amid growing fears of a man-made famine in the country.
The Mission views any violation, no matter how limited, as a grave development that could undermine the entire truce.
"We feel that if those responsible for the war are not ready to end it ... the African Union should mobilise troops to the region and force the warring factions to a ceasefire," she added.
Remaining issues include how to monitor and enforce a ceasefire, rights abuses and where north and south would be split.
The government, backed by the civil society, had refused to sign a cease-fire declaration, judging that the issue falls within the prerogatives of the heads of state of the Great Lakes region.
But the conflict has continued, with mutual accusations of cease-fire violations.
Australia CANBERRA -- Australia said on Tuesday it was deeply disturbed by reports that a militiaman had been shot and killed in the Solomon Islands, breaking the tenuous cease-fire agreement signed last week by warring ethnic militias.
In Kiev, President Petro Poroshenko appeared to be holding out hope for a new cease-fire, but said stern retribution would await anybody violating the peace.
His words, "We have started receiving appeals to extend the deadline and the latest appeal has come from Chief E. K. Clark...Henry Okah has also appealed for an extensio n of the ceasefire and believes the government will see reason to engage the Aaron Team in constructive dialogue on the root issues".
But both sides accuse each other of repeatedly violating their own ceasefires.
Some believe the truce empowered gangs to bully the state with the specter of renewed violence.
The President commends the African Union's deployment of cease-fire monitors and a protection force to Darfur.
YEMEN Despite cease-fire, fighting kills 31 Overnight fighting between Yemen's Shiite rebels and pro-government forces in the southwestern Taiz province killed 31 people, including eight civilians, Yemeni officials said Saturday.
In the first place, there was no cease-fire agreement signed in Windhoek.
Prior to the truce deal Dokubo was reported to have threatened to ditch the peace talks, citing renewed military siege on his hideouts and offensives allegedly mounted against his supporters and militant followers.
I was told that, even if I did manage to obtain a cease-fire, I must warn both sides that, because of the UN's commitments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no troops could be provided to monitor the new peace agreement for six to nine months.
MARGARET WARNER: If there is no permanent cease-fire reached, there are many voices in Israel calling for some sort of ground invasion.
The 7th negotiated cease-fire, as Rick just said, were the Palestinians asked for.
Separatists indicate possible cease-fire MADRID (AP) -- The Basque separatist group ETA reportedly says that it is willing to declare a permanent cease-fire, verified by international observers, in a bid to settle the troubled region's long-running conflict with the Spanish government.
I believe the recent breach of the cease-fire is an additional reason for all Ivorian parties to now accept resolutely the path to reconciliation.
But in a report last month, Secretary-General Kofi Annan said the warring sides had made good progress in reaffirming their commitments to the peace process, including pledges to withdraw their troops and to uphold a new cease-fire.
"It was opposed to separating the cessation of hostilities from the ceasefire agreement, and added that the manner in which the CNDD-FDD was proposing the separation made government interpret it as a precondition before the beginning of actual ceasefire negotiations," Zuma's office reported on Monday.
France currently has 4,000 troops in the country, alongside forces from African nations monitoring a ceasefire between government forces and rebels who launched an uprising in September 2002.
Earlier this month ETA, which is fighting for Basque independence from Spain, called off another ceasefire which had lasted 14 months.
"MONUC can contribute to what passes as a ceasefire between the conventional armies," said George Bloch of the International Crisis Group.
Gang leaders say they are committed to maintaining the truce.
For example, a ceasefire requires lengthy efforts, on the ground as well.
On a more political note, Chvez took yet another step to distance himself from the leftist Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) guerrillas, calling on the rebels to agree to the four-month ceasefire required by President Uribe to proceed with peace talks, and offering to help in the process.
It called on the RUF to give a more convincing demonstration of commitment to that ceasefire process.
Havana, Apr 16 (EFE).- Colombia's second-biggest guerrilla group is prepared to negotiate with the Andean nation's government on an immediate cease-fire, the rebels' top negotiator said here Monday.
On Thursday, Ugandan troops said they would agree to a ceasefire only if the UN team currently in Kisangani established a presence at Ugandan army lines.
So too would any force sent by the Economic Community of West African States which brokered this week's ceasefire.
Those were the very specific conditions that the President associated with a cease-fire because those are the precise areas where we felt there were the greatest risks to civilians.
"Kabila was using Basankusu to attack our positions in violation of the cease-fire.
The signatories are expected to deliberate on "preliminary cease-fire talks," sources stated.
During a long meeting with President Abdul Mohammed Aziz we discussed the strange role of the United Nations in appointing a special force to monitor the ceasefire and to promote negotiated settlement.
It ended with little progress on the key issues of a ceasefire and who would lead the three-year transitional government set out in the peace agreement.
The SPLA has refused to call a full ceasefire without a wide-ranging political settlement of the conflict.
Although a cease-fire has settled over the capital, reporters on the ground say the situation remains tense.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ANNOUNCER: Bringing a peace plan to Beirut and a tough message from Washington: It's still too soon for a cease-fire.
Joseph Akinlaja, the head of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas, or Nupeng, was skeptical that the ceasefire calls would take effect and said he was not prepared to tell members to return to work in the troubled western Niger Delta.
The Council supports the participation of all stakeholders at the Peace Talks, but suggests that such a meeting be carried out in two phases at the same venue, first with Government and LURD to negotiate a ceasefire; and secondly with all Stakeholders to strategize a way forward in the political process.
The government has insisted that the ELN declare a cease-fire and stop kidnapping as a precondition for any talks, but the ELN has consistently rejected this.
And should the ceasefire not hold this time, they have promised to hold the range of individual protagonists in the conflict personally responsible.
Mr. Gaddafi offered to negotiate a ceasefire but nothing came of it.
The Government also demanded for a peramenant ceasefire arrangment that its scope is Greater Upper Nile.
"Despite MONUC's repeated efforts to organize a cease-fire, the two sides have continued to exchange artillery, mortar and small-arms fire," the statement said.
Subsequent meetings of an OAU Implementation Committee proposed a cease-fire, a UN peacekeeping force, and an interim administration to assist with an OAU-UN-supervised referendum on the issue of independence or annexation.
What they're saying was there was a cease-fire (INAUDIBLE) more than 24 hours ago.
"We have also reviewed, analysed and conceded efforts we have needed to make together with other parties involved to reach the stage aimed at ending hostilities and concluding an honourable ceasefire," he said.
The rebels of Dr. Riek Machar are rejecting ceasefire without release of the political detainees who they call as their allies.
Text of report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS Rabat, 3 April: Russia firmly believes that UN Security Council Resolution 1402, which provides for an Israeli-Palestinian cease-fire, should be implemented immediately, Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov said today on arrival in the Moroccan capital.
Furthermore, the strong presence of Mexican transnational drug trafficking organisations in Honduras is also likely to limit the effectiveness of the truce.
- Indian and Pakistani troops meet at ceasefire line.
The Security Council has authorized a 5,537-strong U.N. force to monitor the cease-fire, but deployment depends on security guarantees.
Authorities estimate that, in four months, the truce has already saved 1,000 lives.
The Security Council appealed for all parties to respect the cease-fire and refrain from military action.
Mr. President, an announcement of ceasefire by the government to secure life, liberty, and property of its citizens-a primary function of government, should never be construed as placing the government on parity with LURD.
The draft truce prohibits military movements, reinforcements and hostile propaganda.
"There's some kind of ceasefire.
But he said on Monday the Security Council was setting conditions for a U.N. force that required "a perfect score on some performance chart," adding: "To the best of my knowledge, no other ceasefire agreement anywhere in the world has been subjected to this test."
The group said earlier this month that it would call a cease-fire if the government stopped investigating its members and supporters.
A U.N. technical survey team has been in Kinshasa since October 13 to draw up plans to send a team of military observers into the interior to monitor the ceasefire, but has failed to reach agreement with Kinshasa on adequate security guarantees.
EDWARDS: If the West Africans won't go in until there's a truce, that seems to leave the forces of Taylor and the rebels to fight it out on the streets of the capital.
Japan's Abe urges Putin to ensure Ukraine ceasefire holds Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Sunday pressed Russian President Vladimir Putin to play a constructive role in ensuring that a shaky ceasefire in Ukraine holds.
The meeting was said to have followed high level intervention from key international allies calling for a ceasefire between the President and the Prime Minister.
The regional force, to be funded by Western countries, is due to replace troops from former colonial power France, who evacuated hundreds of foreigners trapped behind rebel lines before staying in place to monitor the ceasefire.
Rebel leaders said they proposed a swift truce, or what they call a "winding down of the war," as a half-way step towards an eventual lasting ceasefire in the conflict in which 75,000 people have died.
Pressure should be used to obtain a negotiated solution that would end Liberia's conflict and a cease-fire between LURD and the Liberian Government.
"It is well established that the authorisation to use force given by the Security Council in 1990 may be revived if the council decides that there has been a sufficiently serious breach of the conditions laid down by the council for the ceasefire," he said.
Analysts say that an abrupt halt of oil production would likely push the government side to the negotiating table, improving the chance for a truce.
MINURSO has been in the Territory since 1991 to monitor the ceasefire between the two sides and to conduct a long-stalled plebiscite on self-determination.
Bogota, Apr 2 (EFE).- The Colombian government announced Monday that an official will travel to Havana next week for talks that could lead to a cease-fire and release of hostages by the smaller of this Andean nation's two main leftist insurgencies.
He noted that armed groups in Burundi have been appealing for cessation of hostilities pending negotiations of a cease-fire agreement, but they refuse to sign the peace deal aimed at putting to an end of a seven-year ethnic civil war which has claimed over 200,000 lives.
The lower international risk aversion, caused by both the steps agreed to a ceasefire between Russia and Ukraine as better services PMI data in China, led to a fall in the demand for assets considered safe as 10 year bonds from the US, which yield advances two basis points at the start of the day, standing at 2.44%, while the yield on the Bond M 2024 remains unchanged from yesterday's close, reaching 5.75%.
The ugliness of the situation explains why the U.N. has been shy about brokering a cease-fire.
The resolutions drafted by this committee may lead to a possible cease-fire and troops pull-out," he said.
''They broke the truce,'' said Mohammed Jama, an Aidid spokesman in Nairobi, referring to a 10-day cease-fire.
"There will be no cease-fire before Kabila negotiates with us directly," Ngoma said as he left the conference site.
And he said that he was hopeful that the current 48-hour cessation of aerial bombardment pledged by Israel would actually open the way possibly for a longer-term cease-fire.
Various Objections Registered In addition, the West African initiative calls for the establishment of an interim government and elections to be held within a year of the cease-fire agreement.
The Organisation of African Unity (OAU) brought together defence ministers and military officials from countries involved in the conflict in Addis Ababa on Thursday to seek a ceasefire.
The United States has pledged to support a west African force and sent three warships to the region, but the White House has said it will not put US boots on the ground until a ceasefire is in place and Taylor leaves power.
"There's no point in a ceasefire.
Speaking to journalists on his arrival at the airport here Wednesday, the Burundian President said he was optimistic that a ceasefire would be in place soon following direct talks between him and some rebel group leaders.
"The United Nations must act to impose a true ceasefire," Soro said.
The Ugandan government assures that it remains firmly committed to the demilitarization of Kisangani and the upholding of Lusaka Cease-fire Agreement, Wapakabulo said.
21 July 1998 14:13 Reuters News LBA English (c) 1998 Reuters Limited KAMAPALA, July 21 (Reuters) - Uganda's President Yoweri Museveni on Tuesday reiterated his hardline stance against rebels fighting his government and rejected calls for a ceasefire.
"They are excluded from the political process, they are unable to return to the armed struggle because they are still bound by the cease-fire of N'djamena two years ago and a whole array of international measures will be taken against them, including most likely, individual and collective sanctions."
General Timothy Kazembe, acting chairman of the Joint Military Commission (JMC) said he had led a mission of the panel to Kinshasa, Goma, Kampala and Kigali for consultations on developments since the signing of the ceasefire.
9, Col. 1 English c. 1993 New York Times Company Pres Jorge Serrano, citing concern about Guatemala's image abroad and economic development, says he pushes for peace accord or cease-fire with remaining rebels, interview (S)
The only condition that President Uribe is putting forward is the institution of a verifiable ceasefire.
Pagan Amum, commerce secretary within the SPLA'S National Liberation Council, told a news conference the ceasefire applied to Bahr el Ghazal province and three other "corridors of tranquility" and had immediate effect.
Tonight, Mr. Woweiyu, the Taylor spokesman, said his group was willing to hold cease-fire talks with Mr. Johnson, but only if the West African force ended its efforts to set up an interim government.
A senior member of Islamic jihad says they've had discussions with Hamas about a limited truce.
What will follow the first step: A cease-fire.
"France calls on rebels to join the ceasefire negotiations without preconditions," the French spokeswoman said.
At the moment they are behind RPA lines and I do not think they will be able to know who is violating the cease-fire."
Bogota, Nov 18 (EFE).- Colombian President Alvaro Uribe said Thursday that leftist guerrilla acceptance of a cease-fire is a precondition for beginning any new talks with the rebels.
The constitution was drafted as part of a ceasefire after nearly two decades of civil war that left 300,000 dead.
A conversation, let alone a loud plea for a cease-fire, can be heard from more than 50 yards away in the quiet rural area.
Military spokesman Major John Milton described the attacks as a first breach of the ceasefire but diplomats said the attackers could equally have been renegade soldiers or bandits.
The government had insisted rebels agree to a ceasefire during the talks, which are expected to continue through the end of the year.
Bemba said he considered the ceasefire had been broken.
Asked when a ceasefire might be achieved, Chiluba told reporters: "I would love that to happen as soon as possible.
But Lekota said a peacekeeping operation under a United Nations mandate would only go ahead once the warring parties in Burundi, a tiny tea and coffee-growing nation, signed and implemented a ceasefire and agreed on a transitional authority.
On Thursday last week, Sahnoun met Museveni and Kabila in Gulu and the rebel leader rejected a plea for a ceasefire.
But the focus is on a ceasefire and stabilization force.
In the wake of a major offensive launched late last month by Hutu rebels on the north of Bujumbura, Buyoya said he would not allow the interim regime provided for in a peace accord signed last year to come into effect without a ceasefire deal being reached.
However, in a report last week, Annan said the warring sides had made good progress in the last two months to reaffirm their commitments to the peace process and uphold a new cease-fire at various summits across the continent.
The country's main rebel group, the 12,000-strong Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, has avoided peace talks in recent years, and outlawed right-wing paramilitary groups frequently ignore a cease-fire agreement.
The Saudi Arabia-led coalition resumed its airstrikes after the ceasefire expired on Sunday night, and accused the Houthi rebels of repeated breaches of the truce.
Soon after the truce was inked, rebels and government forces accused each other of breaking the accord but the LURD later declared a unilateral ceasefire to prevent the already catastrophic humanitarian situation in Monrovia from worsening.
"Accepting the leadership of a new transition without conditions, particularly that of a cease-fire, is not altruistic and even less patriotic", a Tutsi opponent, close to the G-8 [a group of eight Tutsi parties], said...
"What we did in holding foreign and local nationals hostage was absolutely in violation of the ceasefire agreement," Kamara said.
Morocco described the meeting as "serious violation of the ceasefire agreement" signed by Morocco and the Polisario Front, the channel reported.
- April 24 - U.N. Security Council approves deployment of 50 ceasefire observers.
Sierra Leone-based ULIMO, which has not been involved in the peace pacts, recently said it was calling off a ceasefire and would resume battle against Taylor.
Not only does that create more of a condition perhaps to have a sustainable cease-fire, it also, of course, gives the people of Israel more security that that piece of the job is done.
Industry Minister and government spokesman Josep Pique said the government would seek a definitive cease-fire accord with ETA during a second round of talks.
The fighting in Eastern Equatoria appears to violate a unilateral ceasefire in the south announced on August 4 by the government.
Moreover, as is often the case with the breakdown of a ceasefire, the ending of the truce could result in a spike in gang violence, which could reverse the current encouraging trend.
They will go in only if a cease-fire holds and when governments have pledged enough soldiers.
A Twitter account believed to be run by Machar said on Monday that there would not be a ceasefire until the Ugandan army pulled out of the country and anti-government detainees were released.
Lekota on Thursday said the four countries would only embark on a peacekeeping operation once a ceasefire agreement between the warring parties had been signed.
FEBRUARY DEADLINE Museveni has long opposed negotiations with the LRA, but on Friday he reiterated an earlier offer to declare a one-week ceasefire for talks with the rebels, provided they stop killing and kidnapping civilians and then assemble at designated points.
It described this as a "ceasefire coupled with the departure of non-invited troops".
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -- The latest developments from the annual meeting of the United Nations General Assembly, where world leaders are grappling with a multitude of global crises, including the fight against terrorism -- the Islamic State in particular -- and easing the refugee crisis in the Middle East and North Africa (all times local): ___ 7:30 p.m. North Korea is offering what it calls "dramatic improvement" in the Korean peninsula's security situation if the United States acts to replace the armistice there with a peace treaty.
He stressed that a cease-fire must first hold before such a force could be deployed.
1982 - Three days after the U.N. Security Council demanded a cease-fire in the Lebanon war, Israeli tanks roll across the "green line" into west Beirut in an attempt to drive out the Palestine Liberation Organization.
The head of state condemned these barbarous acts and pledged to avail the necessary resources to the army if the armed gangs rejected the cease-fire.
All rights reserved Scepticism in barrios, where residents say people are still disappearing despite truce between powerful gangs It was an event greeted with astonishment and celebration: on Saturday 14 April nobody was murdered in El Salvador.
On Thursday, the rebels said they had received assurances from U.N. officials and foreign diplomats that the Kinshasa government would be condemned for breaking the ceasefire.
Despite the fact that the cease-fire between the two sides, effective for 13 years, forbids operations like these without obtaining a license from the UN, the UN has not made any comment so far, especially that the Polisario Front has not made an official complaint regarding this yet.
But officials do not rule out US military participation in enforcing a cease-fire if Taylor leaves.
African leaders called for an immediate cease-fire.
The RCD rebels have already vowed to continue fighting despite the uni= lateral ceasefire offer from their main allies.
The SLM/A has accused the government of violating the ceasefire on many occasions, most recently claiming it launched an air strike against rebel bases in Darfur on Saturday, but has said it would respect the truce as long as talks continued.
The Secretary will also host a meeting of the International Syria Support Group, the ISSG, in New York to discuss next steps and efforts to foster a nationwide ceasefire and parallel political transition negotiations to end the conflict while intensifying the fight against ISIL.
Chabar claims that the Polisario rebels have failed to respect the ceasefire because "the liberation of all the Morroccan prisoners of war was due the day after the ceasefire was brokered."
The warring parties have to agree on a unilateral or bilateral cease-fire, then cease hostilities.
This week again, fierce clashes broke out between the two Islamist groups, breaking the ceasefire deal.
Both sides accuse each other of repeatedly violating ceasefires and the SPLA statement said the government continued to carry out "widespread and indiscriminate aerial bombardments of civilian targets".
(Spain-Referendum) ---PARIS -- France and Germany offered to deploy drones as part of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)'s efforts to monitor Ukraine's ceasefire, a government official said on Monday.
In any event, without some kind of ceasefire, the 1,700-strong ECOMOG force will face a tough task halting attacks along a border several hundred miles (km) long.
As well as maintaining contact with all the belligerents' military forces, the U.N. troops would monitor the ceasefire, investigate violations, verify the disengagement of forces, facilitate the release of prisoners, supervise the redeployment of forces and help with humanitarian operations.
He advocates an open war the moment the ceasefire that was agreed upon between the [western Sahara independence movement, the Polisario [Front] and the Kingdom of Morocco no longer has a reason for being, today with the inability of the United Nations to implement its commitments.
A lightning rebel advance has shattered a short-lived ceasefire, left bodies on the streets of Monrovia and prompted a British call for U.S. intervention in a West African country founded by freed American slaves in the 19th century.
(AP) AFRICA ETHIOPIA, ERITREA: U.N. ROLE A group of United Nations liaison officers will arrive in Ethiopia and Eritrea by the end of next week, in the first stage of a peacekeeping operation to enforce the cease-fire that the two nations signed last month, a senior United Nations military official said in Asmara, the Eritrean capital.
"Yesterday the representatives of the rebel group came to my office, had a discussion with us, and we are now encouraging them to support this ceasefire," he told the BBC.
Ironically, the first such truce observation effort was triggered by the General Assembly's partitioning of Palestine which led to hostilities.
He said that during the meeting the three leaders were in total agreement about the importance of ending hostilities and implementing an immediate cease-fire.
Those points included full respect for and implementation of the ceasefire that has been agreed between the parties in conflict, urgent progress towards a comprehensive political settlement, and full respect on the ground for international human rights and humanitarian law.
We want to have a cease-fire with a compromise by the both local commanders to withdraw their troops," said Lt. Col. Danilo Paiva, head of the 22-strong U.N. observer team.
But on Friday he reiterated an offer of a one-week ceasefire, provided the guerrillas stopped killing and kidnapping civilians and assembled at designated places.
Juba remains very reluctant to the implementation of the peace agreement, as a faction opposed to the peace agreement says the deal enables Machar to keep his army in the capital, and at the same time puts a foreigner with a large power at the head of the ceasefire monitoring mechanism.
Former president George W. Bush imposed sanctions on Liberia in 2004, saying a peace deal and cease-fire ending the civil war was not being fully implemented.
The government declared a cease-fire 10 days later and there have been few open clashes with the government since then, though there have been repeated conflicts with neighboring communities.
He said he had reported 59 violations of the ceasefire since mid-October and that Kabila's forces had suffered heavy losses in the attacks.
He also said that it is possible to have a cease-fire, since all those involved agreed to it.
Susan Rice, President Barack Obama's national security adviser, said Washington was considering sanctions "if an agreement is not signed by the government within 15 days and a cease-fire is not implemented promptly by all parties."
The cease-fire deal promised a referendum, but it never took place and Rabat now rules it out.
Earlier this month fighting broke out briefly between rebels and government troops for the first time since mid-2003, along a cease-fire line guarded by thousands of French and U.N. peacekeepers.
The truce has now remained intact for almost four months and the murder rate in El Salvador has subsequently fallen from approximately 14 homicides per day to around 5.5.
We call upon all parties to commit to an immediate ceasefire - all movements to join the peace talks in Doha and possibly in Darfur.
27 Nov: The armed forces accuse the rebels of violating the ceasefire around Vavoua, north of Daloa.
But Villalobos said that even if rebels suspend the unilateral ceasefire, ending a brief respite from 12 years of war, negotiations to end the Salvadorean conflict could still produce a peace accord by year's end.
Mr Cossan Kabura, head of the [rebel] National Liberation Front (FNL), was told harshly: "You have one calendar month to initiate negotiations for a cease-fire with the Burundi government or else you will face the sanctions of the sub-region and from the international community."
Because of Sankoh's terms, no cease-fire was arranged and the talks were adjourned after three hours.
Ceasefire talks -- to end a more than a month-long conflict in which thousands have been killed -- are deadlocked amid squabbling leaders and rebel demands for the release of political prisoners.
Any crossing of the area of separation is a breach of the ceasefire line.
Thirdly, all the signatories are doing everything possible to negotiate agreements on some of the issues such as a cease-fire, the transition, the electoral system, reservations and amendments.
- Ceasefire violations to include not only attacks and recruitment of combatants but also sabotage, kidnapping, harrassment, seizure of arms, illegal arrests and importing new arms or ammunition as well as "hostile" or "defamatory" propaganda.
Uganda was committed to the troop withdrawal plan, but would not go ahead without an immediate cease-fire, he said.
Of course, that obviously made it more difficult to sustain a cease-fire, given sometimes the confusion that causes on the ground.
"We told Silwamba that if Kabila continues to bombard the civilian population, the ceasefire will be compromised," Tambwe said.
There was an agreement in place to observe an ECOWAS-negotiated cessation of hostilities and ceasefire, which was to have paved the way for comprehensive peace talks and the proposed formation of a transitional administration.
McArdle was convicted in 1998 for his part in the bombing, which marked the end of the IRA's ceasefire, killing two people and injuring 40 others.
This was further aggravated by fact that Western allies snubbed a suggestion by AU leaders to save Gaddafi through a ceasefire.
The Secretary-General's Special Representative, briefing on 16 October, said that despite a hard-won ceasefire, presidential elections and the creation of a new United Nations peacekeeping operation that had "opened new prospects" for recovery from near-collapse in 2012, the security situation remained fragile at year-end, amid asymmetric attacks by extremists and tensions within the armed forces.
Each side accuses the other of repeatedly violating the ceasefire.
Commanders contacted on both sides accused each other of breaking Monday's ceasefire.
The confusion over what occurred in Zaire came close to unraveling the peace process last weekend when Mr. Savimbi briefly called off the cease-fire, complaining that the African leaders had misrepresented his side of the bargain.
Seeking to ease such concerns, both parties signed a statement on Thursday, agreeing to "refrain from any aggressive acts, such as exactions and extra-judicial executions, recruitment and use of mercenaries, enlisting child soldiers, and violating the ceasefire."
This was done for the UN to take the role of mediator and introduce the prospect of a ceasefire.
UN prepared to consider "active, concrete" support of a cease-fire The Security Council also reaffirmed "its readiness to consider the ac= tive involvement of the United Nations, in coordination with the OAU, includin= through concrete sustainable and effective measures, to assist in the implementation of an effective cease-fire agreement and in an agreed proc= ess for political settlement of the conflict."
Great Lakes leaders warned then that the Burundi government and the rebels risked sanctions if they did not begin implementation of the agreement, which called for the declaration of a ceasefire within a month.
What are they doing with the Lusaka ceasefire accord which ...implies the cessation of all violent acts?"
Oxfam urges political and civil society leaders in the region to ensure the ceasefire lasts so that the process of recovery can begin."
The talks offer Uganda the chance to actively seek ways of calming the hostilities and make the ceasefire hold.
The Saharawi Official asked the UN to intervene to protect the Saharawi people, expressing SADR condemnation to Morocco's abuses to dictates of the cease-fire, point to the existence of the Wall of Shame and mine fields.
Human rights monitors were sent to El Salvador before a cease-fire had been secured to help defuse tensions and hasten peace.
According to Bryden, the new authority will have an enormous task to consolidate and monitor a comprehensive ceasefire, control heavy weapons, demobilise militia groups and form a new police and military force.
French troops, already in Cote d'Ivoire to safeguard theirs and other foreign nationals, took on the task of monitoring the truce.
"The ceasefire must be linked with the withdrawal of the foreign forces," he told state radio on arrival in Kinshasa.
Organisation of African Unity Secretary General Salim Ahmed Salim said the talks, from which the six-man rebel delegation was excluded, resolved to call a meeting of defence ministers in Addis Ababa on Thursday to pursue ceasefire options.
To achieve this goal, FRIENDS OF LIBRIA advocates the following: * A strong, proactive leadership role of the United States in the international community to help guide the cease-fire and the transition to a democratic government.
Reaffirms the need for full respect of the military agreements reached with MINURSO with regard to the ceasefire; "2.
"The rebels can never accept a cease-fire if regional powers do not take firm action," he said.
The African leaders called for an immediate ceasefire in fighting between Zaire's ramshackle army and ethnic Tutsi rebels who have captured swathes of eastern Zaire and its main towns.
Sri Lanka Group implicates army in death of aid workers The massacre of 17 aid workers in war-torn Sri Lanka on Aug. 4 was almost certainly committed by government troops, international ceasefire monitors said yesterday.
Fighting finally ended when the commander of the Seleka rebels proposed a ceasefire, having lost many of his armed vehicles and far too many of his troops - 800 or more plus many wounded.
"The critical short-term task remains a fully effective cease-fire and the disengagement of forces," said Deputy U.S.
Israel,Hamas exchange fire as truce expiresEleven Palestinians are reported to have been killed and around 50 injured in Israeli attacks on Gaza on Tuesday as peace talks between Tel Aviv and Palestinian militant group Hamas failed in Cairo.
We will not reveal information on attacks but from the time the ceasefire lapses; there will be a resumption of hostilities".
And Isha, with these reports of more women and girls abducted, what does that mean for that reported ceasefire?
West Africa's veteran leader is seen as the man most likely to broker a ceasefire.
Kabia said UN military chief Major-General Romeo Dallaire would again deliver ceasefire proposals to Government Army Chief of Staff Major-General Augustin Bizimungu and RPF military leader Major-General Paul Kagame.
So, Martin, as I said some four hours away from the cease-fire, what did you see tonight at this late hour in Gaza City?
But in the 22 months of talks since the paramilitaries called a ceasefire (often violated), not much has happened except the creation of Ralito and the disbanding of two small paramilitary blocks, of whom most are street bandits rather than hard-core fighters.
CEASEFIRE SHAKY The mission says the ceasefire has been largely observed.
Uribe has also offered negotiations to Marxist rebels if they declare cease-fires.
Before the collapse of the cease-fire, the U.N. peacekeepers had intended to oversee disarmament and demobilization of both sides, as well as elections next year.
Annan said none of the conditions have yet been met that would allow the U.N. to go ahead a carry out a scheduled deployment next month: the parties are not adhering to the cease-fire or cooperating with U.N. personnel; U.N. staff members don't have freedom of movement and troops being offered to the U.N. mission don't have adequate strength, equipment and training.
After the truce was reached, an order went out to stop the killings, and by mid-March 2012, the government proclaimed that the homicide rate dropped from 14 a day to six.
The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta issued a statement saying it would no longer abide by the unconditional Oct. 25 cease-fire President Umaru Yar'Adua had negotiated with the group.
The 8,700-strong force was sent in to police a ceasefire and oversee disarmament after an eight-year civil war marked by the hacking off of limbs and other rebel atrocities against civilians of all ages.
The seven-man UN Security Council delegation is touring the region to look into the prevailing conditions for the deployment of its 5,000-strong UN peacekeeping force to monitor the cease-fire in the DRC.
The summit is to ratify the agreements on the cease-fire the discussants will have reached.
The FARP, a faction of the Revolutionary Popular Army (EPR), announced it will resume its activities after respecting the cease-fire that was observed during the electoral process.
The liberation came a day after President Alvaro Uribe gave the AUC a final warning against violating the cease-fire and further hampering a sputtering peace process.
The two Hutu rebel groups did not sign, insisting that what they call political prisoners must be freed first and that a cease-fire must be in place.
They resent that gang leaders were moved out of the highest-security prison as part of the ceasefire terms; many suspect that being reunited with their underlings in other prisons has enabled them to use the truce as cover to expand their criminal activities.
It was when a hostess asked her dinner guests during the Lebanese civil war: ``Would you like to eat now or wait for the cease-fire?''
The minister in the president's office, Patrick Mazimhaka, told RNA the meeting was "a mere waste of time" as long as there was no ceasefire agreement.
If Unita had not signed the cease-fire, one could easily conceive of them having been wiped out."
"Our government is ready to make an end to this war and we are ready to sign a ceasefire," ambassador Gabriel Kyunga wa-ku-Mwanza told the news conference.
The Commission intends to continue with this process to facilitate the speedy establishment and operationalization of a monitoring mechanism, should the parties agree on a ceasefire.
Are we heading towards a gradual departure from the Lusaka cease-fire agreement?
But the United States made clear it was reluctant to approve a force if the ceasefire continued to be violated by all sides.
HENRY: It was French President Nicolas Sarkozy who took the lead on the cease-fire and Republican Senator John McCain has pushed for specific punishment of Russia, such as knocking it out of the G-8 or yanking the 2014 Winter Olympics from Sochi, Russia.
However, other signatories of the peace accord are convinced that negotiating a cease-fire should be left to leaders of institutions created under the Arusha protocol.
He also advised Nicaragua in talks with the Contra guerrillas leading to a ceasefire and eventual end of that country's civil war.
Distaste for the way in which the government is dealing with Mr Murillo has undermined confidence in the peace process and public support is being further diminished by reports of hundreds of infractions of the ceasefire which ended four decades of civil war.
[Newscaster] Ambassador Kiplagat said following the violation of the cease-fire agreement by some factional leaders, a committee to monitor the cease-fire process has been established.
Most of the illegal miners are allegedly Basotho nationals whose government plans to call for a ceasefire PHOTO: ANTONIO MUCHAVE ILLEGAL AND DEADLY: Some of the items confiscated by the police during a previous raid in Springs, Ekurhuleni Photo: Supplied
"The two warring faction leaders will meet in Freetown on the invitation of ECOWAS in an effort to consolidate the present call for a ceasefire between Johnson and Taylor," an ECOWAS source said.
"If a cease-fire can be achieved through talks with Lemos then that's all well and good," he said.
Also, of course the very latest on the cease-fire here which continues to hold, the peace talks expected to begin in Cairo tomorrow, the enormous devastation in Gaza and how people there are living in the middle of it all, and what the Israeli government thinks it accomplished.
Council member say they hope to get some concrete action on pledges for a ceasefire and other moves toward peace made and broken regularly over the last year.
A unanimous resolution adopted without debate also called for the "immediate signing of a ceasefire agreement allowing the orderly withdrawal of all foreign forces."
Muse urged Al-Shabab movement to accept talks and not to violate the cease-fire agreement reached in Djibouti.
From day one he refused negotiations and even after signing he never respected the cease-fire.
Hoping to prevent the conflict from escalating and destabilizing the entire region, ECOWAS plans to deploy up to 2,000 troops to monitor a ceasefire, which was agreed to two weeks ago and paved the way for the peace talks.
He said the implementation of the Lusaka ceasefire accord would not be meeting challenges if Africa was not marginalised.
The participants are searching for a formula to achieve a ceasefire in the 11-month-old war, but progress has been slow.
From Jane Bussey in Mexico City Salvadorean peace talks have passed a big hurdle with agreement on partial reforms of the armed forces and the justice and electoral systems, the keys to a ceasefire in the civil war.
4 August 2003 Xinhua News Agency XNEWS English (c) Copyright 2003 Xinhua News Agency UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 4 (Xinhua) - The United Nations Security Council on Monday renewed for six months its authorization for West African and French forces to monitor the implementation of a cease-fire in Cote d'Ivoire.
There has to be a cease-fire.
You cannot eliminate them and quite frankly part of Hamas' strategy is to feature these kinds of civilian deaths and suffering of the Palestinian people on international media as a way it put pressure on the Israelis to accept a cease-fire.
It called on all parties "to refrain from any action that might jeopardize observance of the cease-fire and implementation" of the peace agreement.
U.S. President Barack Obama said on Thursday the ceasefire was a critical first step towards peace in the world's newest state.
What is needed is a multinational contingent of about 5,000 soldiers, authorized by the Security Council to use force to safeguard civilians, protect relief supplies and impose a lasting cease-fire.
Pre-ceasefire negotiations - including humanitarian-access and human rights agreements - to address sexual violence; 2.
Counter-drug efforts in 1999 showed progress in several areas, including: increased methamphetamine and ephedrine seizures; modest expansion of crop eradication; and a number of arrests of members of some cease-fire groups for drug trafficking.
The accord does not provide for cease-fire and the rebels groups have refused to attend peace talks or recognize the agreement.
Kabila himself has linked the signing of any truce with the immediate withdrawal of uninvited foreign troops.
The negotiations are proceeding without a cease-fire.
Once a cease-fire was firmly established, the U.S.-led contingent would be replaced by a more conventional UN peacekeeping force.
This is not an impartial position", Nguen said in reference to Museveni's remark that the regional leaders had given Machar and his group a deadline to respond to calls for a ceasefire or risk being defeated.
France has now deployed 3,900 soldiers, who also have a UN mandate to police a ceasefire between government and rebel forces.
"The Security Council strongly underscores to all the Ivorian parties their fundamental responsibility to respect the ceasefire," it said.
We invested a lot in the efforts to achieve a cease-fire.
So we  I don't think we have right of authorship on a ceasefire or humanitarian access if that's something the regime and others who are  who have the ability to make it happen are able to deliver on.
In another, a dominant militant group in the area, the Niger Delta Peoples Volunteer Force led by Alhaji Asari Dokubo, shot its way through the creeks first to the state government house before their leader was invited to the presidency, a gesture that resulted in a ceasefire.
The announcement came after weeks of promises to intervene, repeatedly stalled by deliberations over funding and broken ceasefires in Monrovia.
Deployment of the international stabilization force, as well as the return of humanitarian agencies and refugees would depend on the success of the ceasefire, he stressed.
The announcement came after weeks of promises to intervene, repeatedly stalled by deliberations over funding and broken cease-fires in Monrovia.
"There should be a ceasefire [in the conflict with Khartoum government] for three months to allow this to happen."
|| Calls on the regional heads of state to continue their efforts to force the transitional government of Burundi and the remaining rebel groups to conclude an agreement on the implementation of the ceasefire; calls, in particular, on the CNDD-FDD and the FNL factions to stop fighting among themselves; 10.
However, he said the trip did have successes - an agreement by the government and rebel forces for a 60-day cease-fire, which Richardson called critical, and an agreement by al-Bashir to allow in some U.N. technical troops for logistics and other support.
"We will work with President Blah to maintain the cease-fire and ensure a smooth transition to the transitional government," said White House spokeswoman Claire Buchan in Washington.
Scores more die each week a cease-fire is delayed.
(POLITICS Terror) LEADERS DISCUSS UKRAINE CEASEFIRE Efforts to secure the full implementation of a ceasefire in Ukraine are set to dominate a gathering of world leaders in Italy.
A 16-year war with the Sahrawi nationalist Polisario Front ensued, ending with a ceasefire and an agreement to hold a UN-sponsored referendum on independence.
We need to bring a ceasefire.
The maintenance of the much improved security situation resulting from a gang truce in March is likely to play an influential role in the electoral contest, the outcome of which will also have implications for the ceasefire, should it endure until that time.
"Kabila acts like the Lusaka peace accord does not exist and because of that there is no ceasefire.
They failed to agree on how the truce should be monitored, however.
Miss Rice told President Museveni that her government wished to promote a peaceful resolution of the conf lict in the DRC and fully supports the cease-fire.
But the talks collapsed a day after Torit fell and the government has said it will only go back to the negotiating table with the rebels if a ceasefire is in place.
It called on the international community to support the establishment of human rights advisers and monitors to start at the same time as the ceasefire monitoring.
However, who will lead the transitional government and when a cease-fire will take hold remained unresolved.
The UN force, officially known as the UN Operation in Cote d' Ivoire (UNOCI), is to monitor the ceasefire in the country, help with the disarmament process, promote human rights, and help the Ivorian transitional government prepare for the general elections in 2005.
The Security Council statement expressed grave concern at attempts by "armed elements" on Nov. 29 and Nov. 30 to cross the cease-fire line holding government forces back from rebels who control half the country.
The basis of the talks is a truce negotiated last year by CIA director George Tenet, but never implemented.
They finally signed on Tuesday but prospects for peace look no better, with the rebels quickly locked in renewed wrangling over representation in the ceasefire joint military commission.
We can aver with certitude that, in months to come, government will violate the current ceasefire and organised labour will wield her sword of strike again.
President Buyoya has had direct cease-fire talks with Col Jean-Bosco Ndayikengurukiye of CNDD-FDD, [National Council for the Defence of Democracy - Forces for the Defence of Democracy] one out of two leaders of armed rebel groups which are against the Bujumbura government.
In the current meeting, scheduled to last up to three weeks, the UN mediator, Alvaro de Soto, has been joined for the first time by Marrack Goulding, who as the UN assistant secretary for special political affairs is responsible for supervising any ceasefire agreement.
"You cannot take action unless you know where is violation [of the ceasefire] taking place, who are the people that are violating, who took up the offensive and so forth," Kiplagat noted.
For now the cease-fire will come to nothing if Kabila and his allies do not honour it.
Their vaguely outlined goal will be to support any future west African peacekeeping force as it attempts to enforce a ceasefire to end nearly five years of fighting.
The successful process that made way in 1994 to the ceasefire with Ireland's IRA (Irish Republican Army) and that on Holy Friday in 1998 went down in history as the last day of the armed conflict in that nation, is also cause of careful study.
"A real cease-fire requires a formal accord on both sides, with the presence of international and national observers and with verification mechanisms," Garcia said Tuesday in an interview with RCN radio.
According to the proposals signed by the CNDD national chairman, ex-Burundian home minister, Leonard Nyangoma, issues yet to be negotiated among 19 signatories include the enforcement of cease-fire and cessation of hostilities as stipulated by Protocol III.
With these two fallen trees lifted last one first, I believe that dialogue and a lasting ceasefire is very possible and I am excited about many suggestions being made to return the abducted girls.
Mandela, chairman of the SADC, on Thursday rebuffed Mugabe's call for military intervention to bolster Kabila and called instead for a ceasefire and talks.
The mediators, on a regional diplomatic shuttle to muster support for the ceasefire, had hoped to get to Monrovia on Tuesday, but their plane was forced to land in nearby Sierra Leone because of bad weather.
Regional official Ezequiel Vitonas, on a visit to Bogota, said indigenous leaders have asked the United Nations and other organizations to back a proposal that would allow the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, to temporarily remain in areas currently under their control if the rebels agree to a cease-fire.
UPDF has done everything to ensure that harmony exists between the forces in Kisangani and the cease-fire is respected," Kavuma said yesterday.
With its aspirations to become a shipping and logistics hub for the Central American region springing out of the Gulf of Fonseca, all eyes are on El Salvador's gangsters and politicians to see if the ceasefire can be held, literally and metaphorically, to push the country forward to a new era of economic and political maturity.
This has begun when they [Le collectif des cadres casamancais] unilaterally decided not to take into account the first and ever true negotiation between the conflicting parties crowned with the Bissau ceasefire deal, signed on March 1991," Nkrumah explained.
This could even lead to a cease-fire or a peace agreement, he said.
The Senegalese president also called for a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas, who ended more than 40 years of Fatah's unchallenged leadership of the Palestinian people with parliamentary victories in 2006.
The truce has already been broken several times.
But both sides in the 15-month-old conflict have repeatedly accused each other of violating the ceasefire, which seems to exist only on paper.
Col Garang informed President Moi that the cease-fire had already been violated by the Khartoum government.
On Cote d'Ivoire, Kansteiner noted that the combatants in the West African country have a cease-fire, a peace agreement, and a plan.
This week's collapse of a short-lived ceasefire between government and rebels has caused a virtual shut-down of the city and left marauding militias to roam the streets.
Another factor working to destroy the cease-fire was the ploys of both Taylor and the rebels.
Moi opened what he said were a last-chance round of peace talks between the SPLA and splintered SPLA on Tuesday, urging them to declare an immediate ceasefire end the suffering of millions of civilians.
The first armed U.N. troops flew into the vast central African country on Thursday to monitor a ceasefire in its many-sided war.
"We don't have an alternative....we have to get the parties to agree to a ceasefire so that Burundians can enjoy peace."
The western campaign came after fighting between government troops and northern-based rebels shattered an Oct. 17 cease-fire being monitored by a 1,000-strong French force.
Here is the reaction of Nkrumah Sane, one of the leaders of the external wing of the secessionist Movement of Casamance Democratic Forces: [Sane - recording] I think the movement has always respected the cease-fire it has signed.
Uganda, he said, appeals to the international community to assist in operationalising the Joint Military Commission and Political Committee, both organs of the Lusaka cease-fire agreement.
3, Col. 3 English c. 1989 New York Times Company Foreign Ministers of five Central American countries say they are moving ahead with long-stalled peace plan for region after daylong talks with Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar of United Nations; say they have asked Perez de Cuellar to draw up plans to send international military observer force to region to verify complains with so-called Arias plan, in which five countries agree to negotiate cease-fires with rebel groups and restore democratic freedoms (M)
But Kaire Mbuende, secretary-general of the Southern African Development Community, one of the organizations that convened the talks, said the meeting of defense and foreign ministers from 12 African nations adopted the draft cease-fire "pending further consultations with all concerned."
Taylor, in turn, indicated he would leave after an international force arrived to monitor a cease-fire deal between his forces and rebels trying to overthrow him so that there would be an orderly transfer of power.
The temporary truce is designed "to create and maintain a conducive atmosphere throughout the negotiations until all the outstanding issues in the conflict are resolved," he said.
"The Lusaka ceasefire no longer applies.
A ceasefire agreement in Lusaka in 1999 was violated by all parties and led to military positions being frozen without an end to the fighting.
He announced that the meetings of the delegation in Khartoum would discuss the issues of relief, self-determination, cease-fire and relations between state and religion.
An army spokesman said the biggest clashes in the run-up to the ceasefire ocurred at Zouan Hounien, a town 30km south of Danane on Friday night, when a rebel force of about 300 backed by armoured cars attacked government positions there.
special congress that the Government accepts Portuguese plan for May cease-fire and elections in October or November 1992.
In one resolution, it reiterated "its condemnation of all acts of violence and its call for an immediate ceasefire and a complete cessation of all hostilities in the region", In a resolution on Albania, the Council condemned "all acts of violence and calls for their immediate end".
A press statement issued by OAU here on Saturday morning said: "The ministers worked out draft modalities for a cease-fire agreement in the DRC.
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said in a recent report that "there has been little progress, if any, in the implementation of the Lusaka ceasefire agreement."
The country's two main rebel groups - the 17,000-strong Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, and the smaller National Liberation Army - have thus far refused to declare cease-fires and enter into peace talks with the government.
'Confronting the state'?Paolo Luers, a columnist for a San Salvador-based newspaper who also serves as spokesman for the truce's negotiators, blames the spike in murders on the outgoing government and its security minister, who withdrew support for the truce when it became politically untenable in the lead-up to the presidential election.
French troops fired teargas on Tuesday to disperse tens of thousands of protesters opposed to the truce, who tried to storm the French base to demand the head of opposition leader Alassane Ouattara, whom they accuse of links to the rebels.
Similarly, there are uncertainties about how such a truce would be negotiated in an environment of insecurity that remains dominated by Mexican-based transnational crime groups such as the Zetas, who are highly unlikely to seek involvement in such a process.
"A ceasefire could come after any agreement on an interim arrangement but this may be later, possibly after another round of talks this year," he said.
"There will be no ceasefire before Kabila negotiates with us directly," he said as he and his team left.
The major task for the elderly former President Mandela is to get everybody involved to agree to a cease-fire in the eight year-old civil war.
These incidents were part of a series of clashes over the    preceding month in the wake of a decision by PKK leaders to end the party's unilateral cease-fire on June 1.
1988 - Iran pulls out of Muslim conference in Jordan after criticism of its failure to heed call for Gulf War cease-fire; former U.S. national security aides Oliver L. North and John M. Poindexter plead innocent to Iran-Contra affair charges.
Despite a supposed ceasefire, some AUC leaders continue to recruit.
The force, comprising 500 military observers and 5,000 supporting troops, will be tasked with monitoring the ceasefire and withdrawal of combattants.
It condemned the rebel attack and called on the international community to take immediate measures to force the rebels to implement a ceasefire.
Kampala (New Vision, September 3, 1998) - Bishop Macleord Baker Ochola II of Kitgum has appealed to Parliament to pass the ceasefire motion moved by MP Aggrey Awori "for the sake of peace, stability and national unity."
The talks starting on Monday were expected to focus on deciding who is to lead Burundi in a transitional period once a ceasefire is achieved.
Bantu Holomisa, leader of a minor opposition party was also critical of Zuma, saying his call for a ceasefire can not be taken seriously.
Unless they can come together and come up with some changes of policy that will make the changes necessary to prevent a further outbreak of war, then it is simply a ceasefire.
The agency was citing a statement published that day in the Mexican newspaper `La Jornada' by Luis Beker, a member of the URNG's political-diplomatic commission, in which he said that the cease-fire was intended to give De Leon time to hold talks with Guatemalan civilian sectors before resuming the peace talks with the URNG, which the latter had suspended on 27th May in protest at the "self-inflicted coup" by former President Serrano.
He said lack of effective leadership in any group could result in numerous cease-fire violations.
In a statement yesterday, the rebels said that President Gbagbo's forces breached the ceasefire on Wednesday when helicopter gunships attacked the police station and market in Vavoua as well as the village of Pelezi.
The international pressure that had led to the renewed cease-fire apparently only reached the political level.
While not driving on to Baghdad and capturing Saddam was an arguable move at the time, the strategic blunder, in our view, was in not demanding that Saddam himself sign the ceasefire agreements, a move which would have effectively neutered the megalomaniacal leader.
"If we cannot get a cease-fire agreement in the next set of meetings, I believe the process will lose credibility and go into permanent crisis," Restrepo said.
Earlier Saturday, mediators from the Economic Community of West African states, ECOWAS, said they were confident they would be able to quickly get the warring sides to sign a cease-fire.
Amnesty said the latest violence "highlights once again the urgent need to include a human rights monitoring component in the Mandate of MINURSO, the UN body which monitors the ceasefire agreement".
They're already in the third round of their championship clashes, and no one can guarantee what would happen even after a cease-fire.
Carter failed at brokering a cease-fire, as did a host of others, including civil-rights activist Jesse Jackson.
Despite the cease-fire agreement, State Department officials have said such support will continue.
But a senior government official gave Reuters a different interpretation of the accord and stressed the government had not rejected the truce despite having reservations on its wording.
The government has insisted the ELN first unilaterally silence its guns and that once the cease-fire was verified, the military would respond in kind -- a move rejected by the ELN.
"There is no ceasefire even on the agenda."
The statement also called for an end to violence by Arab militias, which has killed tens of thousands of Darfur residents and displaced hundreds of thousands more, and a respect for the cease-fire agreement between the government and armed opposition groups.
We hope to make progress towards the cease-fire.
"The commanders on the ground are the ones responsible for blocking the cease-fire," said Lt. Col. Danilo Paiva.
Separate efforts to broker a ceasefire have so far failed.
Amongst the key requirements for a successful ceasefire is a halt to all kidnapping and the release of all of the hostages the leftist group currently holds captive in the jungle.
The talks are meant to come up with recommendations on reinforcing the cease-fire.
However, despite the deployment of an African Union (AU) military mission to monitor implementation of the cease-fire and investigate violations, violence continued.
"We have already heard noises from rebels that they will not honour the cease-fire.
Regional efforts to broker a ceasefire have so far failed.
Now, amid the bleakest prospects yet for a peace settlement, the ceasefire is unravelling.
"It was clear to all that the first day or two would be the most dangerous for the cease-fire: Why weren't preparations for deployment made even before the signing of the ceasefire?
It called on the government and the rebels "to enter into ceasefire talks without preconditions and to allow free access for humanitarian agencies."
But the cease-fire was not observed so far.
Several ceasefire deals have been agreed but they all been violated, sometimes within a matter of hours.
"If either side cared for the civilian population, they could call a unilateral cease-fire," said Lt. Col. Khan Khalid, a member of a small U.N. team monitoring the conflict in the city.
However, the leadership of the transitional government and a cease-fire have remained major sticking points, and two Hutu rebel groups have boycotted the peace talks.
The first brings together the government and the warring factions and will focus on negotiating a cease-fire agreement, disarmament of anti-government forces and transformation of the military and security units, to be accompanied by deployment of a stabilization force throughout the country.
Contingency preparations for a Cheney-Arafat meeting in Egypt proceeded, but it depends on the Palestinian leader agreeing to U.S. terms for a cease-fire, administration officials underscored.
"The Secretary-General believes there can be no military solution to the conflict," the statement said, "He will continue to actively support current regional efforts to broker a ceasefire, the withdrawal of foreign troops from the territory of the DRC, and a broadening of the democratic space in the country," he added.
So far, the main rebel groups have resisted Mandela's entreaties to agree to a cease-fire.
UNMIL, with more than 15,000 military and police personnel on the ground, was established by the Security Council on Sept. 19, 2003, to support the cease-fire and peace process that ended the 15-year-long civil war.
Betancur was widely criticized for not heeding telephone pleas for a cease-fire from Alfonso Reyes, the Supreme Court president who died in the assault.
Monday's attack followed a weekend call from detained rebel leader Foday Sankoh for his supporters to respect a truce but ECOMOG's local commander Brigadier Maxwell Khobe said he had no immediate plans for a major retaliatory offensive.
Colombia's current president, Alvaro Uribe, is demanding a cease-fire before new peace talks can start.
Since then, most belligerents have pulled back from the front lines and U.N. observers have been monitoring the cease-fire.
"So we may see some kind of ceasefire and attempts at negotiations, but I doubt that the arrangement willl last long," he added.
In a report released a week ago, UN chief Kofi Annan said the 463-strong UN force known as MINURSO "continues to play a key stabilizing and ceasefire monitoring role" and should therefore have its mandate extended for another six months.
When Muqtada al-Sadr says he wants a six month cease-fire, it's because he has lost the war.
Guerrilla commanders interviewed in the centre and east of the tiny Central American nation this week ruled out a ceasefire accord in the near future.
It said that the main concern remains the search for a cease-fire with a view to stopping violence, and invited the parties to "address exhaustively the issue of transitional institutions by looking into ways of agreeing to set them up".
"The main aim at the negotiating table will be to reach agreement on a ceasefire, as a commitment by the ELN to facilitate the start of a process of dialogue, and on reciprocity by the government to suspend military operations against that group," Restrepo announced last month.
The Sept. 5 cease-fire has been routinely violated.
"In this case particularly, the ceasefire should provide at a certain stage down the road...for these foreign forces to leave the DRC.
Security officers in patrol around the Butiye area were not spared either after an officer was shot dead following an ambush while another officer sustained gunshot injuries on Thursday Laisamis MP Joseph Lekuton on behalf of leaders from Marsabit County called for a ceasefire among the warring groups and assured that the leaders will work together for peace and reconciliation.
But as the end of the ceasefire in Ukraine Monday and the buildup of Russian military on the border shows, those tensions aren't likely to quickly disappear.
"He only said to me that we should allow a temporary ceasefire to allow the humanitarian relief officers to be given a chance and that during that period Foday Sankoh would be released.
The blast came days after hundreds of rebels and their families left Homs as part of a local truce.
"The (new) government should strive for the implementation of the resolutions on the ceasefire, bring back those who had fled the capital city and develop Somali society and its interests," state radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, said late on Sunday.
"It should be a clear message to the international community that by not signing a ceasefire agreement, the DRC government has a hidden agenda and that they are ready for war," Rucogoza said.
Meanwhile, the UN Security Council member countries have rejected the Burundi government proposal of giving priority to the issue of cease-fire instead of setting up a transitional government.
I think there was agreement among the leaders that there needs to be a political process and that this simply cannot be about a ceasefire; it has to be about a political process as well that gets at some of the core issues that are driving the conflict within Syria.
French troops are serving as a buffer force in the center of the country as well as monitoring the truce line that stretches through rebel-held Bouake, the country's second-largest city, to western Daloa in the heart of the cocoa-growing region.
The Nicaraguan president appealed again for a ceasefire in Libya and the resumption of the peace talks.
Tiebile Drame, chief negotiator in the ceasefire deal with the rebels that was a crucial precursor to the elections, announced last week he was withdrawing his candidacy as "the conditions for a fair vote are not in place".
"We are calling for a brief ceasefire to allow our people to set up a neutral hospital," the spokesman said.
The UN Security Council has authorised a force of 5,500 UN troops to monitor the Lusaka ceasefire, but so far only 228 military observers have been deployed.
MJP chief Gaspard Deli also pledged to honour the truce adding that he too was sure that "peace will return shortly."
"It (the ceasefire) is unilateral.
In the absence of an operative ncease-fire, which is a distant possibility, the goal of a unity government has no practical import within the confines of the Djibouti process it is merely aspirational.
There was that little ceasefire that was going on when the Egyptian prime minister visited Gaza.
The United States is not expected to send peacekeeping troops to a large international buffer force planned by the United Nations once a ceasefire holds.
The rebels' envoy to the United Nations, Ahmed Boukhari, has since warned that the cease-fire "cannot be sustained" without real action on a referendum.
"We are working with the United Nations to affect policy necessary to get a ceasefire back in place.
In Havana, Pablo Beltrn, head of an ELN delegation, said that the rebels would on Tuesday begin discussing with Colombian government representatives the initial terms for a ceasefire.
"What is outstanding (from the Arusha agreement), is to get the other groups who are outside the process to negotiate with the government of Burundi towards a ceasefire.
But it does not call for a cease-fire.
"There has been a lull in fighting which is welcome, though we would have preferred a ceasefire," said Shaharyar Khan Mohammad.
Similarly, with a view to ensure that the ceasefire holds and humanitarian corridors remain open, a monitoring and verification mechanism has been put in place under the auspices of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement with a Joint Technical Committee in Juba.
Italy, the former colonial power, and the European Community have called for a ceasefire to allow them to evacuate an estimated 470 Western nationals, most of them Italians.
Government Peace Commissioner Luis Carlos Restrepo said Wednesday that Arbour was misinformed about paramilitary cease-fire violations.
Hamas today turned down a ceasefire plan in Israel, has been preparing its people for a protractive battle.
No-one has mentioned anything about a cease-fire.
But the Polisario leader said the rally organisers had assumed a grave responsibility in ignoring UN resolutions and causing a ceasefire violation.
"From the perspective of the internal political situation, the foremost objective is getting a binding cease-fire in place," Moussa said.
"There will be severe consequences for the children if the cease-fire ends.
Of course a group of 572 military observers proved incapable of stopping the violence, yet the Security Council redesignated the truce commission as the United Nations Truce Supervision Organisation (UNTSO).
Given this year's dramatic drop in homicide figures, the administration--which accepts credit for "facilitating" the truce but denies that it directly negotiated with mara leaders--is no doubt keen to see the cease-fire endure.
The priest confirmed to RCN that subjects like amnesty, a ceasefire, and the release of hostages would not be addressed during this round of talks.
He added that as Banadir administration by respecting the ceasefire deal signed in Djibouti they stopped the military operations against the islamists saying that they would establish new military tactics when the premier arrives in Mogadishu.
While the government has said it was willing to observe a ceasefire, Mr Machar has set demands including the release of his arrested political allies before committing to a truce.
"Until mechanisms for monitoring are established, when one says there is a unilateral ceasefire, there is no way the other person would be confident this is a commitment," Machar said.
Moreover, a truce among Mara gangs could pave the way for groups such as the Zetas to further extend their influence in the region.
Restrepo also demanded that four of the most brutal paramilitary factions immediately start demobilizing their fighters and respect a cease-fire.
Uribe has insisted that the country's illegal armed groups declare a ceasefire as a condition for resuming peace talks.
The question of the ceasefire was closely linked with the growing problem of humanitarian access.
Mandela was publicly optimistic as he prepared to brief regional leaders on his latest efforts to secure a cease-fire agreement and help Burundi's political parties pick a transitional leader, but as he spoke heavy fighting was reported in Burundi's northwestern provinces.
But the truce looked wobbly as the factions and their backers could not resolve the issue of how to supervise the peace.
Also the government is making mistake by trying to limit the scope of peramenant ceasefire to Greater Upper Nile, meanwhile there are forces loyal to the Opposition in Bahr el Ghazal and Equatoria.
Mandela never managed to get government and rebels to agree to a cease-fire.
FIONNUALA SWEENEY, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Kyra, day three of the ceasefire here and it does appear to be holding along the Israeli- Lebanese border.
Without peacekeepers, we could see further violations of the ceasefire," Chiluba said.
The deal calls for partial withdrawal of all foreign forces within 30 days from the signing of the document with full withdrawal to be completed when a final ceasefire is sealed.
--- Obama emphasizes Saudi Arabia's "crucial" role in fighting IS Washington (EFE).- U.S. President Barack Obama emphasized the "crucial" role of Saudi Arabia in the fight against the Islamic State upon welcoming to the White House two of the kingdom's princes, with whom he also spoke about the cease-fire between their nation and the rebel Houthis in Yemen.
African Union peacekeeping mission The aim of the African Union mission is to monitor compliance with the ceasefire agreed between the parties to the conflict with a beefed-up presence of observers on the ground, to help stabilize the situation, and to make it possible for humanitarian relief supplies to get through to those in need.
Several previous cease-fire efforts have failed.
"In view of a sharp deterioration of the situation in the area of Ukraine's law enforcement operation in southeastern Ukraine, the Russian side, in a gesture of goodwill and without waiting for a ceasefire to be installed, is inviting OSCE observers to the border checkpoints 'Donetsk' and 'Gukovo' on the Russian-Ukrainian border," according to a commentary posted on the Foreign Ministry's website.
But in a report last week, Annan said the warring sides had made good progress in the last two months to reaffirm their commitments to the peace process and uphold a new cease-fire.
Soro said he was sure that Gbagbo's forces would break the ceasefire.
But U.S. officials say the truce has eased tensions and that the ship has been ordered back to the United States.
On Tuesday, a Taylor spokesman suggested that the cease-fire was the only binding part of the agreement.
The peace accord does not include provision for cessation of hostilities or a more formal cease-fire, and the rebels were not part of the process.
In the same communique, Djibouti is urgently calling on the international community to act immediately with a view to reaching a cease-fire and to bring the various parties to the negotiating table in order to bring the peace process back on track.
"After one year, all we have is a bakery and a chicken farm that employs a handful of people, this cannot sustain [the] truce," Munguia says.
"Belgium condemns unreservedly this action which constitutes a direct violation of the Lusaka Accord and to the subsequent ones calling for a cease-fire," the statement issued by the vice prime minister and Foreign Affairs minister, Louis Michel reads.
But since the actors failed to agree on a general framework for conducting the referendum, MINURSO is currently restricted to confidence-building measures and cease-fire monitoring.
A ceasefire negotiated in Lusaka in July 1999 was violated by all parties and ultimately led to the armies' positions being frozen without an end to fighting.
The ceasefire document also spoke of a new Monitoring and Verification Team (MVT) and Joint Technical Committee (JTC) to monitor the implementation of the agreement, verify, and report to IGAD Special Envoys.
While the Arusha component of the country's peace process had come to a completion with the "fragile agreement" of Buyoya as leader of the first half of the transition period, the so-called Libreville process allowing armed groups to participate in the negotiation of a ceasefire is just starting, according to regional analyst Jan Van Eck.
Ecowas, the 15-member union of west African states, continued its deployment of the first few hundred members of a regional peacekeeping force of 3,250 intended to enforce a much-violated ceasefire and to ease Mr Taylor's exit from the country.
1 January 2003 19:12 Reuters News LBA English (c) 2003 Reuters Limited NAIROBI, Jan 1 (Reuters) - Somali factions who agreed to a truce only two months ago to try to end a decade of anarchy traded blame on Wednesday for fighting that killed at least six people in the northerly breakaway region of Puntland.
The mission, however, falls far short of a regular peacekeeping venture and would not use force to impose a ceasefire or to disarm any of the parties, the draft resolution says.
Their draft is a ceasefire or peace agreement between two warring factions.
The conflict has so far defied numerous attempts at a ceasefire.
There is need to call a ceasefire and take a close look at shortcomings in the National Accord and related pieces of legislation.
The meeting is aimed at working towards a cease-fire agreement in Burundi.
He said little progress had been made toward a cease-fire agreement.
Similarly, regional organizations in Africa - including the Economic Community of West African States, its cease-fire monitoring group, and the Southern African Development Community - have authorized the removal of coup leaders on the continent to prevent the suffering that these groups have concluded regularly follows the overthrow of democratically elected regimes.
"A truce is much harder to keep than it is to formulate or announce," he said.
"What's in crisis is the government's relationship with the truce," Luers says.
The commission of Colombian facilitators wants the meetings in Havana to agree on the conditions and a verification mechanism for a ceasefire, and to establish a framework and agenda for peace talks.
BLOCK: You are there with Lamin after a cease-fire's been established and there are elections for the first time.
They did not meet, but each side spoke to Vice-President Zuma, who is like the deputy of the mediator [Burundi peace mediator Nelson Mandela] on the question [of the ceasefire].
Kiyonga refused to elaborate on the ceasefire situation, saying only that consultations were continuing.
Makuei said the ceasefire offer remained in place and that the government had done all it could to bring about peace talks to end the 14-day-old conflict, adding Machar had done nothing.
The agreement hopes that this could lead to a successful round of talks during which a cease-fire and a global Peace Agreement is expected to be signed in Paris.
"This does not mean by itself a cease-fire or the wish to get a power-sharing agreement with al-Shabab.
With the failure of the cease-fire, the government has a lot of lose.
Peace enforcement missions can use lethal force in serious combat institutions, whereas peacekeeping operations are intended to support and monitor a ceasefire.
He said at least one other past truce between Salvadoran gangs quickly disintegrated.
Meanwhile, Interior and Justice Minister Sabas Petrel de la Vega said the preliminary talks should be aimed at a final ceasefire.
We need the international community to put enough pressure on the rebel group to accept signing the ceasefire without preconditions.
The main topics on the table at this point are demobilisation, a ceasefire, and the return of the 400 hostages held by the ELN.
But exceptions built into the plan drew a threat from the militant group Hamas to rescind the cease-fire now in force.
Bush, in Monterrey to attend a U.N. development conference, sent Zinni to the region last week to attempt to broker a cease-fire, re-engaging the United States in the peace effort after staying on the sidelines for months.
Gurirab said the draft called for a ceasefire with independent monitoring, a foreign peacekeeping force, a timetable for elections and the integration of rival forces into a single army.
In a new campaign spot, ARENA's presidential candidate, San Salvador Mayor Norman Quijano, openly attacked the truce and accused the Funes administration of "negotiating with criminals."
"With acts of violence being committed against our people in Lebanon, we say to the world, especially world leaders, that our community endorses a ceasefire by both sides to save lives and properties," Samir Hassaniyeh, head of the Lebanese community in Sierra Leone, told a news conference.
Previous attempts at a ceasefire under the auspices of SADC have failed because of the exclusion of rebel forces from earlier talks.
Uganda's deputy foreign minister, Asuman Kiyingi, said Tuesday that Uganda was trying to negotiate a cease-fire but he also took aim at the U.N.
Regional efforts to broker a ceasefire have so far failed.
The United States opposed the move, saying it wanted reassurances that all parties were committed to the cease-fire and ultimate peace.
The SPLA said it was also responding to an appeal from Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi, and was acting unilaterally following the postponement of talks aimed at extending the ceasefire which had been scheduled for October 5 in Nairobi.
A key stumbling block is timing troop withdrawals once a cease-fire is declared.
Both sides have accused the other of breaking a humanitarian ceasefire in Bahr el Ghazal, aimed at allowing aid agencies to get emergency food relief to civilians.
Lt. Gen. Lazaro Sumbeiywo, the Kenyan facilitator of the talks which are held under the auspices of the regional Intergovernmental Authority on Development, or IGAD, said cease-fire negotiations were to have begun on Saturday.
It further stressed that all parties to the ceasefire agreement agree as soon as possible to an all-inclusive framework for a transitional government until such time when free and fair elections can be held and noted that President Taylor's departure from the country was critical to that endeavour.
The country's second largest leftist guerrilla group has expressed its willingness to call a bilateral ceasefire with the government while this week its leadership promised to release imminently to police officer hostages.
"We are committed to the ceasefire and will continue to observe it, but also maintain defense.
The UN force's mandate needs to be a stronger Chapter 7 status, meaning that peacekeepers can intervene in conflicts and actively enforce the cease-fire agreement.
He also said that he would be calling for a cease-fire during the first talks.
Although some returns have begun with the ceasefire, depopulation of parts of western Nepal remains a concern.
But independent analysts said the major U.N. powers had no intention of sending a promised 5,537-member observer mission, on standby for more than a year, to monitor the ceasefire.
For the last 10 months of the ceasefire nearly all civilians in the south and border regions have been able to live in peace, however fragile.
The government of hardline President Alvaro Uribe reacted cautiously to the ELN proposal for a cease-fire by both sides, and indicated it didn't go far enough.
The text of Monday's truce, due to begin at midnight, said it was aimed "at allowing negotiations to start in Paris, where a ceasefire pact and a global peace accord will be negotiated".
The urge for peace was so great that in the 20 months of the cease-fire, not one violation was reported, a pointed contrast with Bosnia.
The negotiations, which are being held under the auspices of the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD), are expected to come up with a final word on power sharing and permanent ceasefire.
In addition, at the regional level, the West African giant is also the main troop contributor to the ECOWASCeasefire Monitoring Group (ECOMOG) and is always in search of solutions to conflicts in the region.
If it is endorsed, OAU Secretary General Salim Ahmed Salim and the four foreign ministers are likely to visit Kinshasa and other capitals of nations involved in the crisis in an effort to broker an immediate ceasefire, diplomats said.
But that truce expires at midnight local time (8:00 p.m. Eastern time).
I've engaged in cease-fires with bad guys, I've released American prisoners, American servicemen.
Sanity, though, has prevailed where elders from warring factions who are also the custodians of cultural ideals call for a ceasefire.
It has offered a truce while any negotiations continue.
Mulumba's comments had indicated the RCD would not repeat its refusal on Sunday to allow 120 Moroccan troops to land in Kisangani, a move the rebels explained by saying they were unhappy with MONUC's stance on the alleged ceasefire violations.
The president-elect has also improved his stature in recent years by taking a leading position in efforts to open peace negotiations that could lead to a ceasefire in the country's 30-year-old civil war.
The spokesman of AMISOM troops Brigye Bohoku told Shabelle that armed groups design to stage attacks in areas in Mogadishu to show that the ceasefire agreement is not working.
"An understanding has not been possible between the parties with respect to fixing a date, or even an indicative date, for a ceasefire in the internal armed conflict," it said.
In a letter presented to the council, Nteturuye had appealed for a resolution "calling on the parties to the (Arusha peace) agreement to give priority to the issue of the cease-fire instead of establishing transitional institutions, which cannot function under current circumstances and even risk creating new problems."
Facing that economically and politically crippling outlook for the central African region, the United Nations and its Secretary-General Kofi Annan appealed for a ceasefire and the withdrawal of all foreign forces from the former Zaire.
As such, it remains possible that the truce could collapse at any time and this could lead to a spike in violence, as often occurs with the breakdown of a ceasefire by insurgent or organised crime groups.
This is why I said that the situation has completely changed today and we are saying that we no longer feel bound by the cease-fire as established by the United Nations.
A 5,537-strong U.N. force is supposed to protect the more than 100 unarmed military observers now deployed in the vast country to oversee the cease-fire and the withdrawal of foreign troops.
The postponement of the talks cut hopes among aid agencies and donors that the three-month cease-fire to facilitate aid efforts would be extended.
As established by Peace Commissioner Luis Carlos Restrepo, the Colombian government's sole participant in this round of the talks, the objective was for the government and the rebels to sign what both sides have termed a "base accord," with a cease-fire agreement as focal point.
The youths want some 4,000 French troops to quit a ceasefire line between the rebel-held north and government-held south of the world's top cocoa grower, a former French colony which plunged into civil war last year.
As for the ceasefire demands, this issue has been on the agenda and will be discussed.
The rebels have not participated in the peace process, and the accord does not provide for a ceasefire.
An observer noted how "easy it is" for the ceasefire to be broken, how easily talk could escalate from seeking peace to launching all-out war.
In the face of the rebel rejection of cease-fire talks, Minister Severin Ntahomvukiye called on the mediator, the subregion and the international community to get tougher and implement sanctions against the armed groups.
"With a cease-fire, if it does happen, we'll need three to six months to get programmes in place, depending on the level of damage," said John Watt, deputy regional director at Oxfam, speaking from Juba.
"There is clear commitment to start negotiations for a ceasefire which we are hoping will be reached in the future," he said.
The US Ambassador said a ceasefire that has no military capability is not likely to last because there would be ceasefire violations resulting into the shifting of blames.
But a government spokesman, Deputy Information Minister Moses Washington, said the initial aim of the negotiations would be to negotiate a cease-fire.
These include the release of all political detainees and establishing a mechanism for implementing and monitoring the ceasefire.
The report said an estimated 150 civilians had been killed and more than 1,000 wounded, despite repeated efforts by Annan and others to secure a cease-fire.
Ambassador Jeremy Greenstock, who led the 11-member council mission, said Monday that any rebel pullout would have to be part of a cease-fire agreement -and he stressed that Liberian President Charles Taylor had made a suggestion not a firm commitment.
British diplomats said the UN told them refurbishing or replacing guns was within the terms of the ceasefire arrangements.
"I will verify on the ground, with observers and with all means at my disposal that the (ceasefire) accord is respected," he said.
The ceasefire was predicated on the holding of a referendum on independence.
President Museveni assured the MPs that Uganda has from the beginning played a key role in the formulation of and subsequent negotiations for the Lusaka cease-fire accord and that she actively supports its implementation.
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice today declared the United States does support a cease-fire between Israel and Gaza.
The mediation effort mainly focused on the ceasefire and the release of prisoners.
There is some kind of ceasefire, more or less agreed, not clear if it's being completely implemented at this point.
The Opposition parties have promised there will be no ceasefire to celebrate the milestone when Parliament resumes this morning.
"It is vital that decisive action be taken on the diplomatic front to pave the way for an early cease-fire, possibly including some sort of exit strategy for Qadhafi and his acolytes.
"It is not a matter of ceasefire.
Zuma said Thursday's exploratory talks centred on an agreement on issues that needed to be worked out before negotiations on a ceasefire could start, but did not go into details.
He wants to get his combatants to observe a ceasefire," Sankoh said.
It cited the head of the UNITA delegation to the talks, Jorge Valentim, as having said on the 16th that "procedures had not yet been considered for a cease-fire" and that Luanda had not given any answers concerning the issues of national reconciliation and power decentralisation.
Violations of the cease-fire agreement included importation of arms and ammunition; attack against the positions of warring faction by another; and recruitment and training of combatants.
The accords not only provided for a final ceasefire and disarmament between the groups but also included comprehensive reform of the armed forces, civilian police, justice system, electoral system, economic and social arrangements and land and property issues.
On LURD's position concerning the deployment of foreign forces to monitor the cease-fire, Ambassador Awua said the mandate of such forces would be decided at the Talks.
The Polisario said it would end a nine-year ceasefire with Rabat and take up arms if the rally entered the vast Moroccan-controlled territory on its seventh stage from the southern desert city of Goulimine to Smara.
Peacekeeping Force to Stay A statement issued after the meeting said details of the cease-fire "should be worked out as soon as possible," and offered little elaboration.
The violence further complicated Zinni's efforts to forge a cease-fire before Wednesday's start of the Arab League summit in Lebanon that is expected to discuss peace prospects.
UN peacekeeping operations are now increasingly complex and multi-dimensional, going beyond monitoring a ceasefire to actually bringing failed States back to life, often after decades of conflict," said United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan.
The Security Council demanded "an immediate cessation of all military operations and complete respect for the cease-fire."
But he again indicated that "MODEL shall continue with the ceasefire talks because Taylor is not bigger than the needs of our people."
"If either side cared for the civilian population, they could call a unilateral ceasefire.
Buyoya has agreed that peacekeeping troops be deployed in Burundi once a cease-fire is achieved.
"We don't agree to the truce," Lieutenant-Colonel Longin Minani told Reuters by telephone.
She omitted to mention that this clause is a transitional guarantee only covering the period between the ceasefire and the first multi-party elections.
His sharp reaction was to persistent demands by some opposition politicians within and outside the Parliament that the Government declares a unilateral cease-fire and enters negotiations with the various armed rebel groups.
The rebels have spurned Siad Barre's call for a ceasefire.
The RPA were thereafter forced to cease-fire, stop their advance and retreated to their previous position and the fighting stopped.
But the obstacles to enforcing a ceasefire in a war which has drawn in nine countries are formidable.
Feb 04, 2003 (UN Integrated Regional Information Networks/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) - Somali factions attending peace talks underway in Eldoret, Kenya, face expulsion or other sanctions if they continue to violate the ceasefire agreement, Kenyan Foreign Minister Kalonzo Musyoka warned on Monday.
So we have a duty to come in there    and bring the parties that are at war - in this case the government and Lurd - to an understanding, to achieve a ceasefire and to put the process back on the political track.
"The meeting zone must have good-faith guarantees, with limits set in terms of space and time, a ceasefire, and consideration given to the three friendly countries involved in the process," the president added.
A fragile cease-fire continues between Israel and Hamas in Gaza.
He said he will put forth by next month recommendations on developing the mandate for a UN force, including assisting the flow of humanitarian aid, monitoring a ceasefire and assisting "in supporting the effective re-establishment and training of inclusive Somali security forces, including military, police and judiciary," as requested by Council resolution 1863.
Nearly 4,000 French troops and forces drawn from a West African bloc are guarding an oft-violated cease-fire line.
It culminated in the announcement of a unilateral Darfur ceasefire, which was reportedly violated within days of the declaration.
It now remains unclear, with Tuesday expired of the ceasefire deadline, what trend the conflict would to take should regional leaders opt for military actions against Machar.
A ceasefire signed three months ago has failed to hold.
Khartoum has demanded a nationwide ceasefire as its price for going back to Machakos, but Arman on Tuesday said the SPLA would halt attacks only when the talks resume and as long as they last.
The clash in Blue Nile state is the first major incident reported since the cease-fire.
He was speaking only a few hours after RCD spokesman Kin-Kiey Mulumba said the movement was satisfied with recent MONUC statements on the ceasefire issue.
Hailemariam said President Salva Kiir and the opposition also agreed to fully implement the cease-fire agreement in a bid to bring about lasting peace to the country.
The African Union has about 80 ceasefire monitors in Darfur, with 300 troops to guard them.
Ndayizeye has said the FDD also wants key places in the army and other security forces, which he argues would exclude other rebel movements that have also signed ceasefire agreements.
- 22: France sends troops to police a ceasefire.
Uribe's government has long demanded a cease-fire.
Sri Lanka Fighting rages in Tamil heartland Rebels mounted a fierce offensive yesterday in Sri Lanka's northern Jaffna peninsula, the heart of the island's Tamil minority, military officials and the rebels said amid the heaviest fighting since the two sides signed a 2002 ceasefire.
The government wants a binding ceasefire included from the start in any treaty.
He used the occasion to join other members in calling for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Lebanon.
The Cuban-inspired E.L.N., which has been battered by a military offensive, has held talks with Mr. Uribe's government but has so far rejected enacting a cease-fire.
The United Nations reiterates its call to all parties to immediately cease hostilities and respect their ceasefire commitments.
3, respectively, said in its statement that it is willing to "sign, as contribution to a climate of peace, an experimental and bilateral cease-fire agreement - with (international) verification - for a certain period of time."
"It is evident that a culture of secrecy, or at least bureaucratic resistance to transparency, reigns within the offices of the committee," Dr Rob Thomson, a member of Ceasefire's steering committee, said yesterday.
In a Radio Mogadiscio report, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, Aideed said he was ready to implement the UN resolutions to immediately halt fighting and to sign a formal ceasefire by the end of the month.
Chavez also complained that Uribe did not respond to his request for a temporary cease-fire to facilitate the hostage release, and said of the proposed security corridor: "a corridor where?"
The first is traditional peacekeeping - that is, forces that can be deployed only after a cease-fire is in place, that are accepted by the parties to the conflict and that may only use force in self-defence.
But the conflict goes on amid mutual accusations of cease-fire violations, and last week the United States warned that without an end to the fighting any deployment would be hard to achieve.
Israeli authorities on Sunday, said that they would begin covert operations targeting the armed wing of Hezbollah, in apparent defiance of a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a ceasefire.
More than 3,000 French troops are currently policing a cease-fire there under a peace deal brokered by Paris.
The SPLA denied it had launched an attack, which would have violated a fragile truce between the rebels and the government, who are due to resume peace talks in Kenya within weeks.
Siad Barre, who is aged about 80 and who has been in office since a 1969 coup, has called several times over the past two weeks for a ceasefire and talks to end fighting which is thought to have killed and wounded hundreds of people.
Van Eck said in his report that the two main armed Hutu groups in Burundi -- the Forces for the Defence of Democracy (FDD) and National Liberation Front (FNL) -- had not been "given a fair chance to join a comprehensive ceasefire process".
"We call on the facilitator of the Kampala peace talks to immediately put in place a mechanism to monitor the ceasefire," the rebels said in statement.
But the ceasefire was immediately broken, with both sides accusing the other of resuming combat.
The LURD, which has been fighting Taylor for four years, recently launched an offensive on Monrovia, but pulled back to the edges of the city last Wednesday to pave the way for the truce.
The group reiterated its three demands for the holding of peace talks: an accord limiting the use of land mines, the release from jail of all ELN prisoners and a bilateral cease-fire.
But barring a ceasefire in Mexico, dangers are still likely to lurk on the otherwise placid waters of Falcon Lake, US authorities warn.
A vicious circle has, therefore, been created by repeated violations of the cease-fire by Kinshasa and their allies.
Though not being able to crush the peace process at present stage, the violations would surely dim the glimmering hope for peace the cease-fire had brought to the region.
And old-style peacekeeping was much simpler -- usually, just monitoring cease-fires.
Sri Lankan rebels assailed UNITED NATIONS -- The U.N. humanitarian chief accused Tamil Tiger fighters of keeping 100,000 civilians trapped in a Sri Lankan war zone during a 48-hour cease-fire, which he criticized yesterday as too short a time to deliver much-needed humanitarian aid.
And yet, for all of its apparent success, the 15-month-old gang truce currently finds itself on shaky ground.
It did not respond to the other allegations, but said the SPLA was itself violating the truce in the Western Upper Nile.
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni called on both sides to observe the truce.
(Obama-Nomination-Withdrawal) ---CAIRO -- A visiting delegation of the Palestinian Islamic Hamas movement held fresh talks on Tuesday with Egyptian mediators in a bid to reach a durable ceasefire with Israel.
Moreover, a cease-fire was announced by the warring factions earlier this week but failed to take hold, an event that seems likely to raise anew some uncomfortable questions facing Western governments, including the issue of whether military force should be used in some form to save Monrovia.
"The ceasefire is no longer respected.
Only then can come to a ceasefire," the rebel leader said.
Ms. Merkel, appearing with Poland's Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz in Warsaw on Monday, said the two countries agree that sanctions against Russia, imposed after the annexation of Crimea, would persist until the cease-fire accords are fully implemented.
IGAD member country Uganda had previously threatened to send troops to defeat Manchar's forces if the Tuesday ceasefire deadline was not met.
Zinsou said in an interview that he had secured agreement by all parties to attend round-table talks some time ago but everything had been put on hold until a ceasefire was agreed.
Khartoum "can and should" stop its denial of humanitarian access; it "can and should" halt daily bombing of civilian targets in South Kordofan, Blue Nile, and Darfur; it "can and should" negotiate a cease-fire for both Blue Nile and South Kordofan; it "can and should" withdraw from Abyei; it "can and should" resolve outstanding issues between the North and South.
Restrepo said the clash violates the cease-fire agreed to by paramilitaries.
Fighting lasted only 10 days and a tenuous ceasefire has been in effect since, but hundreds of mostly Mayan Indians have died since in sporadic clashes between Zapatista supporters and local backers of President Ernesto Zedillo's Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI).
A Jan. 23 ceasefire agreement failed; thousands have been killed, and nearly one million people displaced, according to an April 27 report from the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).
The UN has also erred by building a mission on a truce agreement that seemed hopelessly flawed.
This weekend the leader of the M23 rebel movement called for a ceasefire.
All sides have alleged violations of the ceasefire.
The LURD last month launched its most audacious attack in a four-year rebel war, penetrating into the heart of Monrovia before withdrawing to the edges to pave the way for the ceasefire.
It has acted as a guarantor for the various cease-fire agreements signed between the separatist government [as heard] and the MDFC, the Movement of Democratic Forces of Casamance.
"A ceasefire is an important part of a political process in Zaire.
Speaking during a visit to West Sussex, Mr Cameron underlined his intention to keep pressure on European Union partners to maintain the sanctions regime against Russia despite the ceasefire agreement.
The UN delegation hopes to nudge forward the peace process in Burundi, as well as to assess the prospects of MONUC, the UN mission in the DRC set up to monitor the ceasefire in that country.
The Burundian peace accord was signed by 19 negotiating parties almost one year ago, however, implementation has so far been blocked by the lack of a ceasefire between the government and two main Hutu rebel groups, CNDD-FDD and FNL, and the lack of consensus on the transition leadership.
ETA called off a 15-month ceasefire with the Spanish government last week, blaming it for ruining the peace process and saying it will be "active on all fronts," a threat interpreted as meaning it would resume its attacks.
Talks break down in June 1988 but the truce holds.
He says any ceasefire must be linked to their withdrawal.
That will be to evolve a ceasefire," he said.
Jensen said certain activities, such as surveying the ceasefire and reviewing cases were continuing operation:.
You probably know that the Secretary-General's special envoy will be going to Tripoli and Benghazi, once again to urge Gadhafi to implement a real cease-fire that is not going to be immediately breeched by his own forces, to withdraw from those areas that he has taken by force, and to look for a political resolution, which could include his leaving the country.
The group's role in the fighting was not expected to derail the talks, however, because no cease-fire had been called.
But the two main armed rebel groups, FNL and FDD, have remained outside the peace process and resisted calls for a ceasefire.
HAVANA (AP) - Colombia's second-largest rebel group called Tuesday for peace talks with the government to include a cease-fire and a freeze in efforts to reach a free trade deal with the United States.
Mr Nkurunziza, who is in Uganda for a three-day state visit, said different rebel factions agreed on a ceasefire after Uganda's intervention.
But the focus of her well-written and detailed investigation is on how the civilian Government sat back -- Mr. Betancur refused to take telephone calls from the captured President of the Supreme Court or to order a cease-fire to allow negotiation -- and encouraged the army to do its dirty work in the name of preserving legality.
The ceasefire was breaking down.
Both sides have spoken optimistically of an eventual ceasefire.
In a report to the General Assembly released Friday, Garreton also urged the government of President Laurent Kabila to establish a national dialogue with the opposition as called for by the 1999 cease-fire agreement and accept a regionally appointed mediator.
Long excluded from the talks, the rebels are demanding direct negotiations before a cease-fire, something both Mandela and Pierre Buyoya have rejected.
Mr Sadio';s ceasefire is the clearest sign so far that this policy is working.
The ministers strongly condemned the cease-fire violations, adding that this would cause the lose of lives and property, besides obstructing the peace process.
A protacted series of negotiations aimed at distributing power more equitably between the Tutsis and the Hutu majority has made some headway -- a transitional government is due to get off the ground next month -but a ceasefire with the ever-active rebels remains elusive.
On Monday, French Foreign Affairs minister Dominique de Villepin urged Gbagbo to agree to sign a ceasefire agreement with the rebels.
At that meeting, West African leaders proposed a peace forum for Liberia and asked government forces and insurgents there to enter into an immediate ceasefire.
However, Aronda said Makenga had attached "no conditions" to the withdrawal agreement, but had only raised concerns about the need for a formal ceasefire agreement and the security of the population in the areas they leave.
We see that the cease-fire deal and the U.N. is not making the required progress and, therefore, we have authorized military action."
The ELN wants President Alvaro Uribe to free ELN prisoners held in Colombian jails and negotiate a bilateral ceasefire.
However, the parties are stuck on the specifics of a formal ceasefire agreement and have not yet begun the final round of implementation modalities.
The United Nations had made it clear the troops would not be deployed if no firm commitment to a ceasefire was obtained from all parties.
They want Israel to come in because that will inevitably involve an increase in civilian casualties in Gaza as a result of the Israeli operations and I suspect that Hamas thinks they benefit more from that and by showing that they're resisting Israel than they do from a grouping to a ceasefire on the kinds of terms that the Israelis would insist upon.
GWEN IFILL: Fighting raged across Yemen today on land and in the air, in the countdown to a cease-fire.
"AQIM's creedal ideology is: no ceasefire, no negotiation, and no peace.
"We also call upon both parties to implement an immediate ceasefire to bring an end to further loss of life and the destruction of property."
"This summit doesn't need to take any important decisions, it will just note, take into account, the fact that the warring parties agreed to that cease-fire and they'll ask for a bit of time for the cease-fire to translate into complete results on the ground," he said.
Concerns about global production decreased following a truce between Israel and Hezbollah militia as well as on BP Plc's (BP) plan for production at a key Alaskan oil field despite pipeline repairs.
PESSIN: Now, do you know why they are not letting them across, there is this informal cease-fire, is it more of a sort of political statement by the soldiers?
The ceasefire declaration signed by RPF Chairman Alexis Kanyarengwe comes into force at midnight tomorrow but the rebels have vowed to resume fighting if the Government fails to meet its conditions, including an end to mass killings.
This, he said, was a means of ensuring that the cease-fire is observed.
An AU-led assessment mission to Darfur concluded on Thursday that the presence of AMIS had contributed to reducing the number of ceasefire violations and afforded some level of protection for the delivery of humanitarian assistance.
The truce is to be monitored by the ECOWAS, which will also look into the size of the peace-keeping force that will be needed in the months to come.
They released five Brits but a mission by Paratroopers and the SAS to free the rest and kill their captors -- Operation Barras -- helped convince the RUF and others to sign a ceasefire within weeks.
According to Zuma's office, the Palipehutu-FNL delegation "expressed its readiness and commitment to negotiate a ceasefire agreement with the transitional government", while the CNDD-FDD "also emphasised its commitment to negotiations".
Rabat and the Polisario Front have often accused one another of breaching the UN-supervised military truce.
You know the Secretary has talked about the importance of getting a ceasefire in place for quite some time and he believes it's time to start laying out more detail about what that could look like, how that would be monitored, when it could be implemented, that kind of thing.
The report quoted "sources" as telling Al-Akhbar that "a number of Polisario military forces have repositioned themselves towards the area between El Gouera and Ad Dakhla for the first time since the UN brokered ceasefire between Morocco and Polisario".
Even if Mr. Kiir and Mr. Machar agree to a ceasefire - and so far Machar has not even shown up at talks in Addis Ababa -- they may struggle to enforce it.
"The Moroccan State proceeded to assemble and mobilize its armyin an unprecedented serious and striking development since the signing of the cease-fire between the Moroccan and Sahrawi armies," he added.
The council had called for a cease-fire and urged the two countries to withdraw their forces from the border.
Mr Machar's group has continuously demanded the UPDF withdraws as one of the conditions for observing a truce.
He challenged the rebels to negotiate a definitive peace agreement within 90 days or, if that failed, a ceasefire would go into effect in which they would demobilize and move into containment areas set up by the government.
Rebel and government forces continue to exchange gunfire in spite of several promised ceasefires.
"There has to be a cease-fire.
In an attempt to escape criticism, Uribe's deputy Francisco Santos blamed the Organization of American States (OAS) for the problems facing the peace talks over its apparent failure to verify the paramilitary ceasefire.
As the delegation moved to the MS-13 cellblock at the opposite end of the prison complex, a gang leader who introduced himself as "Marco" said a truce with his enemies "may or may not happen."
The West African peacekeepers has been progressively taking over from French troops along the ceasefire line between loyalist and rebel forces in central and eastern Cote d'Ivoire.
The liberation of political prisoners is one of the main rebel conditions for ceasefire talks with the government, but the government says it has no political prisoners.
Then the international forces can come in and monitor the ceasefire," he said in French.
The centerpiece of the plan, as outlined by Santos and others involved in it, is a guerrilla offer to call an immediate truce in exchange for several major concessions from the government.
And you may recall that yesterday there was a cease-fire agreement signed in Djibouti with one of the moderate groups of the UIC.
This process is unlikely to be completed in at least the 12-month outlook.Tuareg insurgencyIHS assesses that the president's statement is aimed at appeasing domestic critics and other armed tribal groups such as the Gando Iso, as well as putting pressure on Tuareg leaders to return to the negotiating table and uphold the July 2013 ceasefire agreement.
I think we need to step in quickly, provide meaningful support, rather than stay on the sidelines and say, well, when everything is hunky-dory calm, and Taylor's gone and the cease-fire is in place, then we'll consider coming in.
"We expect to reach a peace settlement in two months," SPLA leader John Garang told AFP news agency soon after Musyoka announced the truce.
UNITED NATIONS (AP) - Burundi got an urgent hearing from the U.N. Security Council Friday but it didn't get a statement condemning recent attacks and a call to all parties to a power-sharing agreement to give priority to a cease-fire - not a transitional government.
The rebel leader, Mustafa Abdul-Jalil, also distanced himself from earlier comments attributed to him that Libya's opposition might consider allowing Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi to stay in the country as part of a transition deal, provided he resigns and orders a cease-fire.
He said none of the crew were hurt during the attack, which took place despite a ceasefire accord.
He said Zuma, who is supervising the cease-fire negotiations between the Burundian government, led by Tutsi President Pierre Buyoya, and the Hutu rebel groups of CNDD-FDD and FNL, may soon submit a report on developments made so far in the talks.
The issues of transition leadership and cease-fire will be at the centre of talks with the mediator, Nelson Mandela.
Fortuitously, I came across an American who was going to Uganda to help negotiate a ceasefire with Kony.
But fighting broke out again almost immediately as the rebels attacked Monrovia, and Taylor, who now controls only a fifth of the country, refused to step down as agreed under the truce deal.
The ministers "established a mechanism for the involvement of the rebels in working out the modalities for the implementation of the cease-fire."
He also promised an amnesty for guerrilla leaders following a ceasefire, inviting them to return to Guatemala to take part in a Permanent Forum for Peace aimed at national reconciliation.
But a handful of unarmed U.N. observers were in place to monitor the cease-fire, and for Kisangani, the worst appeared to be over.
Dr Garang said that he also supported the call for cease-fire on humanitarian grounds, but lamented that the other side used the opportunity to re-arm and reorganize its forces.
Local stock and currency markets will also keep an eye on oil prices which firmed on Friday on nervousness ahead of the expected enforcement of a U.S.-brokered ceasefire agreement in the Middle East.
But the statement from my Russian colleague was silent on the issue of the need for an immediate end to the violence for accepting a cease-fire.
During the latest round of talks, the government and rebels also agreed to strengthen an existing cessation of hostilities agreement by allowing military personnel from neighboring states and Western observer countries, such as the United States, to monitor the temporary cease-fire.
But many ICU factions, including al Shabaab, have rejected the peace pact and vowed to continue the insurgency despite the call for a ceasefire.
In the recommendations released after the two-day seminar, participants called on all Somalis to agree to immediate cease-fire throughout the country and to make peace.
Bogota, Aug 5 (EFE).- Colombia's rightist militias, which are beginning peace talks with the government and supposedly are observing a cease-fire, said they are looking into their forces' alleged involvement in the murder of an Indian leader.
Mr. Uribe's government has faced a chorus of criticism because the group has continued to carry out assassinations and other crimes while talks are going on, despite claiming to have enacted a cease-fire.
A truce line now runs right across the world's biggest cocoa producer, where an accord between rebels and President Laurent Gbagbo is gaining momentum.
Cease-fire and then talk about what they want.
I think now the most important task is to reach a formula that will be acceptable to both sides for a cease-fire.
Resolution 1973 demanded an immediate ceasefire.
The United Nations reiterated its call for a ceasefire, arguing neither side could win the country's long and brutal civil war.
The exchanges appeared to be a modest sign of a willingness to talk on the eve of cease-fire negotiations in Minsk, Belarus, on Monday, which Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said could be decisive.
Johnson pointed to the example of Iraq and Iran during the 1980s, in which representatives from both parliaments began working on first drafts of a ceasefire during the IPU conference.
The two rivals formally agreed on Tuesday to allow international observers to verify accusations of violations of an October 15, 2002 ceasefire deal, in a bid to shore up the negotiations, which were threatened by escalating fighting.
The peace talks, which began on Sunday in this town in central Mexico, have been the most upbeat in 14 months of U.N.-mediated negotiations, with both sides saying they were on the verge of signing a ceasefire accord.
"We talk to the belligerents and prevail on them to observe the ceasefire," says Mejabi.
At a summit in the Ivorian capital Yamoussoukro, West African leaders called for an immediate ceasefire and round-table talks.
A cease-fire is therefore a matter of urgency.
The U.N. observers kept talking to both sides, even as they traded mortar and artillery fire, ignoring the nonexistent truce.
ELLIOTT: You returned to the U.S. this past week saying you had negotiated a 60-day ceasefire agreement for the Darfur region.
"We want to enable Ecowas to get in and help create the conditions necessary for the ceasefire to hold, that Taylor must leave, and that we'll participate with the troops," he added.
"I hope that the ceasefire will hold so that we can have interposing forces to ensure that they do not have a clash of arms again," he said.
A survey carried out by The New Vision yesterday indicated overwhelming support for the Government and the Lords Resistance Army to declare a ceasefire.
While the ceasefire has held, the vote never happened and the two sides continue to wage a diplomatic war, accusing each other of human rights violations and of hijacking the peace process.
So far, every time Israel accepted plans for establishing a ceasefire and restoring calm, it was countered by Hamas's sustained rocket fire.
He used the cease-fire during the peace process to re-organize the LRA, recruit new members through forced child abductions, and replenish his supplies.
MANN: The Middle East cease-fire and ways to make it work.
Ali Sheikh Yassin, acting chairman of the Mogadishu-based Elman Human Rights Organisation, said an immediate ceasefire, particularly in Mogadishu, was unlikely.
Mbabazi said the truce would hold nevertheless and that the Joint Military Commission and the political body would start its work while mediators tried to resolve the rebel wrangle.
Under the ceasefire agreement, brokered by the US government, "zones of peace" were to be established in the Nuba Mountains as part of an effort to ease humanitarian aid delivery and improve trade networks for the war-affected local population.
And I would hope that once the cease-fire is in place, these feelings vis-a-vis Hezbollah will be translated into different status quo on the ground, which will impair Hezbollah`s ability to destabilize the situation in the future.
But what became clear was that the government downplayed the breakdown of the ceasefire.
Buyoya's government says it will not agree to a cease-fire until the rebels lay down their arms.
Gurirab said the rebels would honour the ceasefire if it met certain minimum requirements, which he did not specify.
The Council established UNOCI in 2004 to help ensure a ceasefire and pave the way for permanent peace and democratic elections after civil war split the country into a Government-ruled south and a rebel-controlled north seven years ago.
When asked by Xinhua whether any cease-fire on the crisis would be meaningful without direct negotiations with the rebels, Okoto said if the rebels wanted to come to power they should do it through elections since President Kabila had set an agenda for democratization in the country.
Implications A  ceasefire from either side is highly unlikely before President Uribe completes  his mandate.
What kind of conversation he had with, you know, Poroshenko over this notion of a cease-fire.
At the SADC summit convened by President Mandela over the weekend, several leaders called for a ceasefire and asked the parties involved in the war to talk peace.
BALDWIN: So, Sreenivasan, since you mentioned this is just before the cease-fire, this would have been presumably one of the final rockets launched, correct?
The People's Revolutionary Army on Monday proposed a cease-fire with the government as long as it stopped pursuing and investigating the rebels and their supporters.
The minister of cultural and social affairs in northern Darfur, Khalil Adam Al-Karim, was reported as saying the ceasefire agreement was aimed at restoring security in the region and allowing the government to consider the SLM/A's demands.
Mediators are continuing efforts to arrange ceasefire talks between the government and the rebels.
Outside the heavily fortified U.S. embassy, hundreds of desperate people waving palm leaf symbols of peace chanted for help to preserve the latest ceasefire.
It also calls for a ceasefire and for the delivery of humanitarian assistance, in accordance with the tripartite initiative of the United Nations, the AU and the League of Arab States, especially in view of the fact that the rain season will begin shortly.
Despite the 1999 cease-fire agreement, fighting has persisted, with all sides accusing the others of violations.
According to a document of the National Commission for UNESCO, which ANGOP received this Thursday, this date is celebrated since 2002 and has to be observed by the countries as a day of cease-fire and non violence.
During Thursday's meeting at Los Pozos in the FARC-controlled "neutral" zone, international representatives urged the sides to expedite humanitarian and cease-fire agreements.
In Spanish there is a lovely term, una tregua, that means a pause in hostilities, a ceasefire.
Due to the different stages of the process -ceasefire, disarmament, demobilization and reintegration- are being done simultaneously, it requires more resources for its verification, the Ambassador said.
The ceasefire has largely held but both sides remain armed and the mission has so far been unable to meet its mandate of organising a referendum on who has the right to rule the territory, mostly because the two sides disagree on who should vote in the referendum.
That the cease-fire declaration has no bearing on this policy is cynically illustrated by these latest ground and air attacks.
By trusting The Hague option after over a year of coalition government; Kenyans are indirectly pointing out to the world that they are utilizing the current ceasefire to dig war trenches.
JERUSALEM: Israel says it will give the Palestinians time to deliver on Yasser Arafat's ceasefire pledge amid fresh international efforts to calm the region after violence on the ground shakes the fragile truce.
Except for pickup trucks carrying government troops, some apparently in various states of drunkenness, vehicular traffic was light and there was uncertainty about how long the cease-fire would hold.
He pledged the government's assistance in deploying the additional U.N. troops and said it was committed to holding a dialogue with the opposition, called for in the cease-fire agreement.
Any crossing of the area of separation is a breach of the ceasefire line.
Take the necessary measures to support and promote the peaceful resistance, through the Uprising of Independence, as a cornerstone and a major front in the current confrontation during the cease-fire, in the context of national unity and escalation of resistance, to diversify its methods and to constantly expand its scope.
Market prices - which hit 17 year highs at the peak of the fighting - fell heavily Friday, with news of the ceasefire, closing more than seven percent down the same day.
Foreign and defence ministers from the warring parties and several other African states were expected to meet here Saturday and possibly set a date for heads of state to sign a ceasefire, conference sources said.
GUARDIAN: WAR RETURNS TO GAZA AS ISRAELI SOLDIER SEIZED Fighting broke out with renewed ferocity in Gaza yesterday as Israeli forces bombarded the town of Rafah in response to the apparent capture of one of its soldiers by Hamas, after an internationally brokered ceasefire collapsed almost immediately.
It was when a hostess asked her dinner guests during the Lebanese civil war: "Would you like to eat now or wait for the cease-fire?"
The peace process has yielded several concrete developments in Kashmir, notably a ceasefire along the Line of Control and a series of confidence building measures designed to ease tensions between the neighboring countries.
"The meeting is aimed at negotiating with the rebel groups towards a ceasefire," said Zuma's spokeswoman Lakela Kaunda.
The cease-fire called for a referendum on whether the stretch of desert south of Morocco would become independent or part of Morocco.
But at the same time we were going in it and we had faith that we would defend ourselves, that's what we were working towards; that's why during the Arusha peace negotiations and the ceasefire, we concentrated so much on training, so when genocide broke out it was a surprise.
We are pushing all our forces to respect the ceasefire.
Both sides are violating the ceasefires," Paiva said.
Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton today said a cease-fire would only allow Hezbollah time to plan its next wave of attacks.
"It (the ceasefire) is a cover.... One reason that they announced it is the investigation into chemical weapons," Garang said.
In turn, leaders of the rival guerrilla groups have agreed to gather their men in separate cease-fire zones and cooperate with a Special Disarmament Brigade now being trained with international assistance.
He said that the two sides must still work out when the cease-fire will go into effect; differences also remain between the government and the rebel group on how to carry it out in practice.
"This constituted a clear violation of the cease-fire because they were removed from an RUF-held area against their will," Golley said.
A cease-fire ended fighting after a few days, but clashes between rebel supporters and conservative paramilitary groups continue to be a problem, as do religious disputes pitting Roman Catholics against Protestants.
Mr Jean-Baptiste Manwangari (Uprona [Union for National Progress]) said this session had allowed his party to reaffirm the urgent need of a cease-fire being put in place before the setting up of the [transitional] institutions.
The Arusha agreement does not include provisions for a cease-fire and fighting in the tiny central African country has intensified in recent months.
[Reuters, 19.03.08] < http://africa.reuters.com/top/news/usnBAN923861.html > He clarified that the confidence-building measures "concern the exchange of high-level political delegations between the two parties, de-mining and setting up mixed military commissions to ensure, among other things, the respect of the cease-fire."
BALDWIN: And we know Jim Sciutto will be sitting down with the defense secretary, will be asking Chuck Hagel about these moves from Russia in eastern Ukraine and this cease-fire/no cease-fire talk here between Poroshenko and Putin.
However, he warned that the clashes in Kisangani between the two allies could have developed into the battle for Kisangani unless a cease-fire had been reached in time.
But late Thursday, there was little evidence of a cease-fire with heavy shelling in the city.
They have also, on their own initiative, set up a committee to look at security and ceasefire issues.
The rebel groups which fight against the regime in Blue Nile, Darfur and South Kordofan also committed themselves to declare an immediate cease-fire following the toppling of Khartoum's regime.
"For example, traveling; they could say anybody who violates the cease-fire ... will not be allowed to enter any IGAD countries," Kiplagat said.
The drawdown of embassy personnel suggests that U.S. diplomats are deeply concerned about the prospects for a cease-fire and a peace deal between loyalists of President Salva Kiir and backers of former vice president Riek Machar.
The poll, originally scheduled for January 1992 following a U.N.-brokered ceasefire that ended a 15-year-old guerrilla war, has been repeatedly delayed due to differences over who should be eligible to vote.
This prompted Kofi Annan, who headed the body's peacekeeping department during these crises before rising to become secretary general, to declaim: "Peacekeepers must never again be deployed into an environment in which there is no cease-fire or peace agreement."
Analysts say the ceasefire is unlikely to hold without the compliance of the rebels, who have vowed to press on with their military campaign to oust Kabila, whom they accuse of corruption and nepotism.
COOPER: Nic, in Baghdad -- I'm sorry, Nic, in Beirut -- basically, it seems like the U.S. position is no to an immediate cease-fire.
The president's offer was a reply to the FMLN's far-reaching proposals for a ceasefire and participation in elections.
Only then - and assuming the ceasefire holds - would the U.N. move to what it calls Phase Three, with a significantly larger peackeeping force.
First came a duet on the last Bedouin Soundclash album -the standout track Brutal Hearts, from Light the Horizon - and then the Armistice project.
Key issues are a ceasefire and the release of 11 pro-Machar detainees arrested last year over an alleged coup plot.
"The Security Council will certainly give a strong message to these two in order to make sure the cease-fire holds and the situation in the area is calmed down," Pleuger said.
This overflying constitutes a violation of the ceasefire and a sheer provocation."
The meeting has been called by Ivory Coast's President Felix Houphouet-Boigny to assess the performance of the five-nation ECOMOG peacekeeping force which has failed to bring about a ceasefire in the 10-month-long civil war.
But Cook said this week that the Foreign Office reversed its decision in June 1999 after the United Nations said the refurbishment was allowed under a ceasefire agreement and U.N. forces would supervise it.
Global Insight Perspective  Significance  The ELN have managed to keep the edge and be one step  ahead of the government and proposing a  ceasefire is a sensible tactic that could open the door for the standing down of  the communist rebel organisation.
Most of the fans called for a ceasefire but the artists and the two camps for a time seemed tranquil.
The anxiety next door Flagging commitment by the two leaders to resolving their political differences peacefully is putting to the test the ability of mediators to broker an effective ceasefire.
ANALYSIS Foreign executives and staff operating in rural areas are kidnapped for ransom (High Risk) Kidnapping is a common practice for both guerrillas and common criminals, and there have also been isolated kidnappings by paramilitaries despite their cease-fire.
The DRC government has accused the rebel movement, known as M23, of trying to derail a ceasefire that has been holding for six months.
Fighting persists despite the cease-fire, with both sides accusing the other of violations and foreign troops making no effort to withdraw.
Col. Matthieu Bony, commander of the five-nation West African peacekeeping force in Cote d'Ivoire, told IRIN on Tuesday that the unarmed UN mission, would be deployed throughout the country to ensure respect for a ceasefire following an eight-month conflict that was sparked-off by a failed coup attempt in September.
MONROVIA, Liberia (AP) - West African leaders appealed for an immediate cease-fire in Liberia as fighting surged Saturday, and offered to mediate in the 3-year-old guerrilla war.
They have said they will not contemplate a cease-fire before he is pushed out.
The truce provides for the disarmament of mercenaries and armed groups operating on both sides.
The radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, said the two sides adopted a joint resolution "to totally observe a ceasefire in Mogadishu with effect from tonight".
The United Nations believed that the ceasefire should be consolidated, the matter should be settled peacefully and the status quo ante should be restored.
The statement said that the SADC forces, while supporting the truce, would defend their positions if attacked.
(SPAIN-ATTACK) - Madrid - Spaniards take to the streets to condemn the first murder committed by ETA after the Basque terrorist organization recently ended a year-long cease-fire.
US military experts in the region are still deciding "what is necessary from our side to fulfill the commitment I have made that we will help maintain the ceasefire - by the way, this is conditional on Mr Taylor leaving," he added.
We may be enjoying relative calm at present, but the pact that ended the chaos and installed the grand coalition government did not amount to a peace treaty; it was merely a ceasefire.
In an emailed statement signed by the group's spokesperson, Jomo Gbomo, the ceasefire has been broken following "careful consideration and extensive consultation", warning that the oil industry should brace itself for an "all-out onslaught".
It called for a cease-fire that has been issued on behalf of the conference but not by the conference.
One of the main groups of protesters, the Egbesu Boys of Africa, called for a ceasefire on oil firms.
"In principle we do not have any objection to signing a deal ending hostilities before the talks resume," he said, adding it was the first time the rebel grouping had been willing to consider a ceasefire before the resumption of talks.
Kategaya, who is here to participate in the 12th Non-Aligned Movement summit, told a press conference that his country fully supports cease-fire proposed by Mandela early this month.
Still, it remains to be seen how long the truce will last.
The Government has agreed for the jailed RUF leader to meet with his commanders, which was a condition set by the RUF to ceasefire and began negotiations to end the war.
A 10-day truce expired last week.
In addition to the unresolved leadership issue, Mandela has failed to get the government and rebels to agree to a cease-fire or even a temporary halt to hostilities.
Apart from providing security protection to members of the Government of National Reconciliation, its frequent patrol and surveillance activities along the cease-fire line drastically reduced incidents of molestation of civilians and frequent clashes between the warring factions.
"Now, for all the differences, we need to wait for some steps to begin, first and foremost, a ceasefire and bringing the warring sides to the dividing lines.
Ugandan government officials said the RPF had responded positively to the ceasefire call.
All sides have violated the ceasefire, and the U.N. has balked at sending armed troops until fighting stopped.
Both sides have accused each other of violating the cease-fire in the past.
They called for an "immediate cessation of hostilities and an immediate negotiation of a ceasefire agreement with a troop standstill".
"With a ceasefire as the starting point, the possibility of a peace offer is there for everyone."
But Mr. Bisimwa said that the rebels abandoned the talks after the refusal of Kinsasha government to sign a ceasefire agreement.
That would bolster the ministers' plans to establish a joint military commission, including representatives from the United Nations, to oversee the wobbly ceasefire in Africa's third largest country.
AT THE MOMENT, cease-fire and dialogue proposals between LURD rebels and the Government are being pursued as approaches to resolving the crisis.
- Bosnia ceasefire aborted.
We agreed that there needed to be an early cease-fire and a negotiated settlement to ensure lasting peace and prosperity in the region.
The chances are considered slim that the leaders can draw up a cease-fire document which satisfies all warring parties in the tiny central African state.
Cease-fires have been repeatedly declared, only to be broken.
But it agreed to an amendment that U.S. lethal aid could be suspended under certain conditions such as an end to Soviet military aid and Luanda's openness to a truce, political settlement and timetable for free elections.
"The warlords, who violate the ceasefire, would lose access to their foreign accounts and their movements will be restricted," an informed source close to the talks told AFP on Wednesday.
Who will monitor the ceasefire?
Richardson also will push for a cease-fire, his office said.
Indeed without a cease-fire, peace will be impossible and the one who will be in charge of the transition will have a difficult task.
"The meeting decided to request President Frederick Chiluba to continue with his efforts in consulation with the OAU for the eventual finalisation of the ceasefire agreement and establishment of an implementation and monitoring mechanism of the ceasefire," the communique said.
Rebels in the DRC, however, have given a cautious response to the reported cease-fire agreement, Radio Uganda reported Monday evening.
West African peacekeepers were supposed to replace the French, to supervise the fragile ceasefire, but they are yet to arrive.
He also accused the AUC of not standing by its promise to observe a cease-fire.
Two years ago, Lale's best friend was murdered by the relative of a slain Nyangatom man, and weeks before our visit, another of the fragile cease-fires negotiated by the government broke down.
Morocco's Permanent Representative to the UN made strange statements in which he requested the UN Secretary-General not to alter the MINURSO's mission, according to his interpretation is to "ensure the ceasefire, reduce the risk of mine explosions and remnants of munitions of war, support the UNHCR Programme of confidence building, and exchange visits between the separated families".
Outlawed right-wing paramilitary groups frequently ignore a cease-fire agreement.
"We are ready for the ceasefire.
The SPLA has so far refused, saying it will only sign a cease-fire once all other issues are resolved.
Apart from providing security protection to members of the Government of National Reconciliation, its frequent patrol and surveillance activities along the ceasefire line drastically reducedincidents of molestation of civilians andfrequent clashesbetween the warring factions.
Another reminder that all the talk of a ceasefire is still just talk.
They overran (Wamba dia) Wamba's base at Hotel Wagenia three hours into the cease-fire.
The government walked out of the discussions when the SPLA captured Torit, saying it would only resume efforts to end Africa's longest civil war if the rebels signed a ceasefire.
