Amri Sued Ismael said in a news conference that the cease-fire will take effect at midnight local time (2100 GMT) Friday.
The referendum was originally supposed to have been held in January 1992, nearly six months after a U.N.-brokered ceasefire ended a 15-year-long desert war between Polisario guerrillas and the Moroccan army.
ETA, which has killed more than 800 people since 1968 in its campaign to create an independent Basque nation in parts of northern Spain and southwestern France, declared a permanent cease-fire in March and pledged to pursue the goal of independence through peaceful political means.
The Uribe administration and the AUC have been holding peace talks since December 2002, when the militias called a unilateral truce.
Fighting between rebels and loyalists in the west has decreased since a cease-fire signed outside Paris on Jan. 26.
The two sides discussed new ideas aiming to break the ice between the rivals who blame each other for the failure to make progress 20 years after a UN-brokered ceasefire halted a rebellion by Polisario Front fighters.
The two sides signed an initial ceasefire, the first of its kind, on October 15, which was due to expire on December 31.
Israel and Hamas both agreeing, at least for the moment, to a new cease-fire plan.
African mediators last week got both sides to sign a cease-fire deal.
Nairobi, Mar 17, 2003 (The East African/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -A NEWLY formed committee to monitor the ceasefire that Somali faction leaders signed last October has moved to stop fighting and help move peace negotiations along.
The governments agreed to a cease-fire in 1996, but fighting continued for two more years.
Earlier this month, a brief statement purporting to be from La Familia Michoacana said the criminal organization was declaring a one-month truce.
President Laurent Gbagbo's government signed a ceasefire with rebels a month after disgruntled former and current military personnel launched a nation-wide attack on September 19.
The setting up of a mechanisms to monitor the cease-fire signed between the Somali faction leaders on 27 October 2002.
The ceasefire is effective from Sunday.
DRC: Fresh ceasefire orders issued by all parties MONUC confirmed that all parties to last year's Lusaka peace including the rebels - had now issued new ceasefire orders to their troops, a mission spokesman told IRIN on Wednesday.
The council members believe this contributed to the largest group, the Forces for the Defence of Democracy (FDD), signing a ceasefire at the end of last year.
Museveni and his guest agreed on a cease-fire and a negotiated settlement.
After the cease-fire was signed, a court spokesman insisted Mr. Taylor still would have to face justice.
It will steadfastly stick to the government's decision of a unilateral cease-fire and its proposal to solve the conflict through dialogue and negotiation, always within the bounds of our laws.
MLC leader Jean-Pierre Bemba said the alleged attack meant his group would not honour a ceasefire pact it signed on Sunday to end its military campaign to oust Kabila.
The ceasefire declaration brings into sharp focus the issue of war and famine.
The two were expected to discuss peace efforts in the northern Spanish Basque country after the recent announcement of a ceasefire by the armed Basque separatist organisation ETA.
News of the ceasefire came after 80 people were killed in an air strike on the central Yemeni city of Taiz earlier Saturday in which at least 150 were injured.
The emergency meeting took place amidst renewed fighting between DRC Government allied troops and M23 rebels in the east of the country, barely hours after the movement declared a unilateral ceasefire to facilitate a return to peace talks in Uganda.
The truce is effective immediately but how it is to be monitored and breaches punished remains to be agreed.
Rebels and the government approved a West African peace plan on Thursday that starts with a ceasefire and is meant to lead to talks to restore normality to a country once seen as a haven of peace and prosperity.
The rebel ceasefire was the second in 10 days.
We will never allow this ugly incident to repeat itself," he said, referring to Friday's ceasefire and disarmament deal in Abuja.
"I repeat, if the ELN agrees to a cease-fire, the government will agree to halt military operations against the ELN."
The rebels did agree on Tuesday, though, to a three-month cease-fire in southwestern Bahr el Ghazal province to permit the delivery of relief food and emergency supplies.
The government declared a cease-fire 10 days later and there have been few open clashes with the government since then, though there have been repeated conflicts with neighboring communities.
Rawlings said one hopeful sign was that a ceasefire which took effect on December 28 appeared to be holding.
The cease-fire came into effect on Monday.
Belgium's foreign minister, Mark Eyskens, said he was told the ceasefire began this morning but there were reports that the rebels had violated it.
The cease-fire signed Thursday calls for an immediate cessation of all military operations.
IGAD is yet to deploy a protection force to oversee implementation of the ceasefire signed recently between the warring sides of President Salva Kiir and his former vice president Dr. Riek Machar.
These accords included a ceasefire agreement, which has frequently been violated by both sides.
In March 2012, representatives of both gangs signed a truce in El Salvador; according to El Salvador's minister of security, David Mungua Pays, homicides in the country have fallen by 48% since the truce was agreed.
They agreed on a ceasefire 18 years ago after fighting each other to a standstill.
More than just effecting a ceasefire, however, the Accord was the beginning of a process that ultimately was designed to ensure that Kenya would never again degenerate into bloodletting on the back of political rivalries.
Following is an edited transcript of an online discussion held on Jan. 22, the day before a ceasefire was signed between the government and rebel representatives.
The Shaykh emphasized that it was important the cease-fire agreement which was signed [by both parties] be upheld.
The ceasefire was to come into effect last evening.
Spain's request for information over the alleged training of ETA members also comes after the Basque group declared a cease-fire last month.
The transitional government signed the ceasefire accord with the main CNDD-FDD faction on 3 December.
M23 rebels announced a cease-fire after defeated by government troops last week but it is yet to sign a peace agreement in Uganda.
The truce takes effect Thursday.
This was announced by the Territory Administration Minister, Virgilio de Fontes Pereira, while presenting information to MPs in a plenary session dedicated to the mentioned process, currently marked by a ceasefire since last Wednesday.
Six African governments involved in the war in the former Zaire signed a ceasefire agreement on July 10 in Lusaka.
The group declared a cease-fire last month.
A unilateral ceasefire was ordered and negotiations with the government began.
The announcement came a day after church negotiators said the rebels had accepted a disarmament plan and called for a ceasefire with the army.
Returning the prisoners is a key part of the ceasefire deal, which set up a 25-km-wide (15-mile) buffer zone along the border monitored by U.N. peacekeepers.
The Ukrainian government and separatist rebels agreed to a ceasefire yesterday amid flickering hopes of peace, but also widespread fear that the blood-letting cannot be stopped for long.
Christopher said the Tutsi rebels had agreed to a cease-fire as of sundown.
Nuclear armed India and Pakistan went to war in the early part of this decade, but did not use nuclear weapons and signed a ceasefire in 2003.
The referendum was due to have been held in January 1992, six months after a U.N.-brokered ceasefire ended nearly 16-years of conflict between the Polisario and Morocco.
Even the active rebel groups who are opposed to the government in Juba agreed to a cease-fire during the referendum; their desire for a successful referendum leading to independence was greater than their hatred of the ruling SPLM.
The president and Asari met for three days last week which led to a cease-fire in the Niger Delta.
According to Mr. Mbabazi, the Uganda army is expected to withdraw from the DRC in six months from the date of the signing of the ceasefire agreement.
Foreign Affairs Minister Kalonzo Musyoka said recently at the African Union summit in Addis Ababa that the frontline states had agreed to set up a committee to monitor violations of the ceasefire that the factions and others signed last October.
After 10 days of heavy fighting in which dozens died, a ceasefire was declared.
He welcomed the RUF's renewed commitment made at "Abuja 2" to comply with the terms of the ceasefire agreement, including its withdrawal from Kambia.
The members of the People's Militia have said that a cease-fire will begin with the signing of this preagreement and that in the next 30 days, approximately 400 armed militiamen will surrender their weapons.
During the first phase, the Somali leaders agreed on a ceasefire, although the agreement was contravened in some parts of the country.
Today LUDR did implement a ceasefire for several hours.
Up to 30 people have been killed since Wednesday when the two sides agreed to extend by another month a six-month-old ceasefire.
A ceasefire was agreed to last month and more advanced talks were scheduled to resume on Monday.
A ceasefire to end the war in the former Belgian colony was first signed by six African nations involved in the conflict on July 10.
Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed said the heads of delegations at talks being held in Geneva between the exiled Yemeni government and the Houthi rebels had renewed their commitment to a cease-fire that took effect Tuesday.
Last month Taylor's government and two rebel groups signed a ceasefire deal in Accra in talks mediated by ECOWAS, the 15-member Economic Community of West African States, but the ceasefire has since been broken several times.
According to the daily, fighting is continuing despite the unilateral cease-fire declared Wednesday night by embattled President Joao Bernardo Vieira.
Mr. Ashara points out how more than 20 warlords signed a cease-fire agreement last year, which he calls historic.
"We applaud the ceasefire that was signed today.
"They have agreed an immediate ceasefire between their forces in Kisangani," Museveni's spokeswoman Hope Kivengere told Reuters.
Speaking late on Tuesday after a meeting with President Laurent Kabila, Aldo Ajello said the peacekeepers could help stabilise the northwestern province of Equateur, scene of regular breaches of a ceasefire included in a 1999 peace deal.
A cease-fire accord was signed on July 10 among the six nations and one of the two rebel factions fighting in the country.
The rebels declared a unilateral ceasefire after saying the decision was out of respect for President Museveni, and called for talks with Kinshasa.
SHARON ORDERS CEASE-FIRE IN WEST BANK AND GAZA Jerusalem (EFE).- Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon ordered the armed forces Tuesday to implement a cease-fire in the West Bank and Gaza.
These are a follow-up to talks in the Kenyan town of Eldoret in October 2002, at which agreement was reached for a ceasefire to be implemented for the duration of the talks process.
Violence has continued to rage on in the region despite the truce announced by the two parties in the conflict earlier last month.
In 1984, Betancur signed a cease-fire with the FARC and M-19, which lasted for about a year, despite efforts by the armed forces to subvert it.
The U.N. Security Council has approved an advance mission of up to 100 military observers to monitor the ceasefire between the two countries, which signed a truce in Algiers in June after two years of intermittent border war.
Iraq Kurdish rebels declare holiday cease-fire SULAIMANIYAH -- A Kurdish rebel group on Sunday declared a nine-day holiday cease-fire in their fight against Turkey, a spokesman said, calling it a "first step toward peace."
After 12 days of fighting in which some 150 people were killed, the Zapatistas declared a ceasefire.
"There has been heavy shelling since morning," despite rebel declarations of a ceasefire late Friday, Yeaten said.
Taylor, whose government fought with rebels again this week after signing a a west African-brokered truce, Saturday said his "government is interested in working with Washington on resolving this problem in the continued promotion of democracy."
The first session of the House appointed a new Prime Minister and one of the new government's first measures was to declare an infinite ceasefire with the Maoists.
The two sides are reported to have agreed to a cease-fire on Sunday, but its effectiveness was in doubt.
In the five weeks before a ceasefire was signed on Jan. 23, nearly 690,000 people were displaced and thousands killed.
The cease-fire agreement went into effect Monday.
The ambition of the JEM to assert itself on the national stage also accounts for its negative reaction to the ceasefire deal signed between the smaller LJM and Khartoum.
After torturous negotiations, all parties eventually signed up to the Lusaka accord which called for a ceasefire and a U.N.-monitored withdrawal of all foreign troops.
The West African country's five-year civil war has erupted in several theatres with no sign that a ceasefire agreed this week has been respected.
As a result of the discussions, the Sandinistas agreed to a cease-fire that generally resembled the plan put forward by the Central American leaders.
Eventually, talks brought a cease-fire.
On Monday, the Centauros Block announced 'a unilateral cease-fire' with rival Peasant Self-Defence Forces of Casanare after Uribe threatened to throw the groups out of peace talks if stop violence between them did not stop.
According to AFP correspondents in Ntamugenga, fighting raged for about eight hours on Sunday and appeared to intensify after the ceasefire order.
Fighting with the government lasted only 12 days before a cease-fire took hold.
The Zapatistas attacked six towns in Chiapas on Jan. 1, 1944, and fought the army for 12 days before a cease-fire took hold.
A government spokesman, Didier Mumengi, dismissed the rebel claims, but a state radio broadcast suggested the truce took effect at midnight Friday, not Thursday.
Civilians are dying," the Russian president said, referring to the cease-fire accord that both sides signed two months ago in the Belorussian capital.
"Although a government of national unity was recently created and a ceasefire signed, failure to curb xenophobic laws and attitudes could compromise attempts at peaceful resolution and catalyze further displacement....The term "foreigners" is a misnomer.
Prospects for peace in the former British colony have rarely looked better than since a November ceasefire which has allowed U.N. troops to deploy and the disarmament of thousands of combatants to start.
The ministers began talks on Tuesday to build on a ceasefire endorsed by the warring parties in the former Portuguese colony on August 25.
Eighteen African leaders attended the peace summit in northern Zaire which agreed on a ceasefire that came into effect on June 24.
On Wednesday in Lusaka, Buyoya said the three-year transitional government could get under way before a ceasefire agreement was reached with the rebel Forces for National Liberation (FNL) and the Forces for the Defence of Democracy (FDD).
Intermittent clashes between the two groups ended in a ceasefire in late 1997 ahead of a U.S. brokered peace deal last year which Ankara is concerned could lead to the creation of an independent Kurdish state in northern Iraq.
Earlier in London, Portuguese President Mario Soames told British members of parliament he had received a message saying a truce had been signed.
Despite cease-fire, more combat deaths in Yemen: At least 10 people were reported killed in heavy clashes in Yemen despite a five-day humanitarian truce.
By declaring a ceasefire, alongside rival paramilitary chiefs Pablo Meja and Guillermo Torres, while promising to decommission during 2004, Arroyave provided a boost to Colombia's flagging peace process.
Two weeks ago in neighboring Malaysia, Arroyo witnessed the signing of a cease-fire between her government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, a major step toward ending decades of Muslim separatist rebellion in the southern Philippines.
Under the agreement, in addition to the ceasefire, Somalis committed themselves to abide by the final outcome of the conference, to set up an all-inclusive federal system of government, to combat terrorism and to enhance the safety of aid workers in the country.
In Liberia, the United States strongly supports the cease-fire that was signed last month.
The six governments involved in the war signed a cease-fire deal earlier this month in Lusaka but the rebels did not sign the document, which in any case seems to have done little to halt the conflict, as both sides have repeatedly accused the other of violations.
a) a cease-fire to take place by 0900 hrs (Uganda time) and b) uninterrupted movement of troops and supplies by 1000 hrs (Uganda time).
Gen Habyarimana, a Hutu, signed a ceasefire with the rebel Rwandese Patriotic Front in 1992 but there have been delays in implementing peace.
Most of the 4,000-strong French peacekeeping force has so far been deployed along the frontline that divides the country in half, maintaining a ceasefire that has held firm for the past eight months.
All parties signed a peace accord last year, but ceasefire violations have continued on all sides.
That comes despite Israel`s announcement of a seven-hour cease-fire for most of the territory.
ARS Chairman Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, who is executive chief of the Islamic Courts, has welcomed the Djibouti Agreement and called on insurgent groups to abide by the ceasefire.
Mr. Kwaje said the cease-fire go into effect at midday Thursday.
The statement said that despite the Somali parties having signed a ceasefire agreement on 27 October 2002, there had been numerous violations, with many crimes going unpunished due to the absence of "a system of justice and policing".
But Nkurunziza was always going to benefit from having simply been the country's leader when a ceasefire was signed, ending 13 years of civil war, and peace was slowly being consolidated.
Three decades of civil war ended in 2002 with the signing of a ceasefire agreement with the then rebel UNITA movement.
Human rights groups have accused paramilitaries of continuing to commit crimes, traffic drugs and attack villages despite calling a unilateral cease-fire and taking part in peace negotiations, which aim to demobilize some 13,000 fighters by the end of the year.
So far, three of four armed groups are signatories to the ceasefire agreement.
Al-Shabwani's tribe members later agreed to a truce with the government in exchange for a full investigation into the incident and a trial for those responsible.
The withdrawal will be a demonstration of Uganda's commitment to the implementation of the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement, which was signed in July 1999, said Katirima.
The two are discussing the implementation of a ceasefire agreement signed in December 2002.
A peace accord agreed by the government and rebels four months ago called for a national dialogue and a ceasefire, but fighting has continued.
Under the terms of the peace deal, a ceasefire will take effect within 24 hours of the agreement being signed on Saturday.
ETA declared a ceasefire last year, but the Spanish government scrapped peace talks in December 2006 after ETA bombed Madrid airport, killing two people.
At a meeting in Uganda at the beginning of this month the warring parties reaffirmed their commitment to the ceasefire deal.
In Ilopango, an outlying district of San Salvador, 19 people were murdered in January 2012 --before the truce went into effect.
MPCI rebels signed a ceasefire a month later but the emergence of two new rebel factions in the west has rocked the truce and forced French troops to fight them to secure an airport a fortnight ago near the town of Man.
7 April 1999 EFE News Service WEFE English Copyright (c) 1999 EFE News Services (U.S.) Inc.; Source: World Reporter (TM) Oaxaca, Mexico, Apr 6 (EFE).- The governor of the state of Oaxaca, Jose Murat Casab, thanked the Revolutionary Popular Army (EPR) on Tuesday for the suspension of its attacks in southern Mexico and interprets this ceasefire as a sign of a desire for dialogue on the part of the group.
All sides already have agreed to a ceasefire, but bodies, most of them civilians caught in the crossfire, continue to pile up in the streets.
Both sides agreed earlier this month to extend a ceasefire in Bahr el Ghazal, a region at the centre of a famine last year.
The ARS central committee, led by Ahmed, endorsed over the weekend in Djibouti a June 9 cease-fire agreement reached with the Somali government.
The Zapatistas briefly occupied several cities and towns in Chiapas state but quickly settled into a tense cease-fire with the government.
The ceasefire signing on Tuesday will give a major boost to a shaky deal signed by six African nations in Lusaka on July 10.
The head of the Centauros Block earlier this week declared a unilateral cease-fire in response to Uribe's warning, but has not addressed the proposal to move his fighters into the so-called secure zones.
Talks have yielded a ceasefire and agreement on several key points.
Fighting continues in the vast central African country despite a ceasefire concluded four months ago.
Though paramilitary commanders claim to have called a unilateral cease-fire, the government's human rights ombudsman has identified 342 violations in 23 months, including assassinations of union leaders and mass killings of Indians.
On its part, the Khartoum government has also agreed to a cease-fire albeit for a shorter period but for the same humanitarian reasons.
The government and rebels agreed a ceasefire in Bahr el Ghazal last year during a famine which killed thousands of people in the south.
A ceasefire was brokered.
Diplomatic Ties to U.S. Mr. Savimbi and President dos Santos agreed on a cease-fire and a timetable for future peace talks on June 22 in Gbadolite, Zaire, about 700 miles northeast of Kinshasa.
___ AP PHOTOS: Cease-fire in Gaza war between Israel, Hamas allows civilians to see destruction GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) -- A brief cease-fire Saturday in the Gaza war between Israel and Hamas militants allowed thousands to return home to see the destruction.
Faction leaders signed a ceasefire last October but it has been broken many times and there are concerns about how any peace deal reached would be monitored.
Gurirab said in an interview the five external forces fighting in the former Zaire had agreed on Monday to a ceasefire draft that would not require their immediate withdrawal.
Under him, the Zapatistas took towns in Chiapas like San Cristobal de las Casas at the start of the uprising, in which more than 100 people died before a cease-fire 10 days later.
A ceasefire to end the 12-month-old war was signed on July 10 by six nations fighting in Africa's third largest country.
They agreed on maintaining a two-month truce but this is the first time negotiations have homed in on the central issues of disarmament and demobilisation.
Mr Andrew Luzze, the executive director of the East African Business Council (EABC) said the recent signing of a ceasefire agreement in Addis Ababa by the warrying parties have not convinced many that peace had finally returned to the war-torn country.
About 150 people died until the implementation 12 days later of a cease-fire.
The cease-fire called on Sept. 5 has been violated almost daily.
An informal ceasefire called between the two sides on Monday afternoon held for just a few hours.
A cease-fire has held after two weeks of fighting.
Kwaje said the temporary ceasefire will come in effect on Thursday this week and the official negotiations are to resume on Wednesday.
The two sides first signed a temporary truce in October last year.
In the October accord, the sides agreed to observe a countrywide ceasefire to create the right environment for ongoing peace talks in Kenya.
Monday's truce was signed by the rebel Movement of Justice and Peace (MJP) and Ivorian Popular Movement of the Far West (MPIGO), the government and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS).
--Nepal's new government agreed to a cease-fire with Maoist rebels and said there would be talks to end a bloody five-year insurrection.
The rebels recently joined the government after gruelling peace talks and this month inked a truce with the government which has so far been respected.
Indonesia's human-rights minister said an understanding was reached between the country's ambassador to Switzerland and an aide to exiled Acehnese leader Hasan di Tiro to sign a truce in Geneva May 12.
Both agreed on a 90-days renewable ceasefire agreement which should be effective throughout the war- torn Horn of Africa nation.
Both sides have paid lip service towards the idea of a ceasefire signed last month under the auspices of a west African-led peace process, but there is little sign that the four-year-old conflict is abating.
The LRA said on Sunday they were declaring a ceasefire from midnight on Saturday, but on condition the army did not attack them.
This is nearly seven years behind the original timetable -- January 1992 -- six months after a ceasefire ended nearly 16 years of desert war between Moroccan and Polisario forces.
It culminated in the announcement of a unilateral Darfur ceasefire, which was reportedly violated within days of the declaration.
"The United States strongly supports the cease-fire agreement signed last month," said Mr. Bush.
The two groups began fighting over the port at the start of this month but agreed to a truce shortly afterwards.
He said all sides should honour the recent ceasefire and begin disarmament; the entire nation must work on reconciliation, and the country's natural resources had to be managed properly.
A truce declared two years ago briefly tapered a bloody gang war, but mass graves still are dug up, filled with young people who were killed after the truce was called.
A ceasefire agreement signed by all parties last year has been repeatedly violated.
"This is demonstrated by the current cease-fire which has been in place for approximately a month."
The government and the SPLA, who are holding talks in Kenya, signed the cease-fire agreement on Oct. 15.
The temporary truce and current five-day cease-fire is set to expire Monday at midnight.
Their job is to monitor the ceasefire which came into force eight years ago.
That led to 12 days of fighting that claimed more than 145 lives before a cease-fire took hold.
The region was hit by a devastating famine last year, and the government and rebels last month agreed to renew a ceasefire there for another three months to let aid agencies carry on their relief work.
The truce marks the culmination of torturous peace talks which have dragged on haltingly for two weeks.
Ijaw leaders had claimed Wednesday they would observe a cease-fire.
The two sides agreed to extend a ceasefire, which has been generally holding, but remain deadlocked on the issues of disarmament and withdrawal of foreign troops helping the government.
Medical and local officials said up to 25 civilians, tribal fighters and government soldiers died overnight in Sana'a and the city of Taiz despite a ceasefire announcement by Saleh late Tuesday.
"The RPA has persistently taken hostile measures to frustrate U.N. deployment of the observers," he said, referring to the unilateral ceasefire declared by Uganda Thursday given preconditions of U.N. establishing an observer presence on the UPDF side.
A cease-fire was agreed, UN troops were deployed and a programme was set up to identify eligible voters.
By then, Liberia had settled into an uneasy ceasefire between Taylor's forces and West African peacekeepers.
Officials said the administration was pressing both the rebels who have pushed into Monrovia and the forces loyal to President Charles G. Taylor to abide by the cease-fire they agreed to last month.
MS. PSAKI: In this case, as we know, this cease-fire just took hold this morning.
On Wednesday, explosions boomed in Monrovia, a day after rebel leaders announced a unilateral ceasefire.
Cesar said there were no reports of fighting in the capital following the rebel cease-fire announcement late Friday.
Perhaps this is amply demonstrated by their recent cease-fire announcement which excluded the western Upper Nile region.
Within days they had retreated, but 12 days of fighting left more than 145 dead before a cease-fire took hold.
A cease-fire agreement signed last week called on Mr. Taylor to step down to pave the way for a transitional government without him.
Despite the deadlock, a Norwegian-brokered cease-fire between the rebels and government in February 2002 has largely held firm.
FEARS OF NEW BATTLE Taylor's commanders said they would silence their guns on Friday after the rebels ordered a ceasefire, but fighters sped out of Monrovia towards the front on Saturday and piled sandbags on a key bridge to prepare for any future attack.
Thousands of people thronged the battered streets of the coastal city after the ceasefire was announced.
However, the main militant group there and others agreed to a cease-fire brokered by President Umaru Yar'Adua in recent months.
The cease-fire deal, which was signed last September in Minsk, Belarus, called for an end to hostilities between Ukrainian forces and Russian-backed separatists and the withdrawal of heavy weapons from the front line.
A cease-fire, agreed on Oct. 17, is still holding, however, and is being monitored by more than 1,000 French troops.
India and Pakistan: The rapprochement between India and Pakistan seems to get stronger by the day, with recent news including an agreement to resume air links between the two countries Jan. 1, with Pakistan's president offering to remove all of his troops from Kashmir if India does the same, and a cease-fire now in place in that troubled region.
The de facto ceasefire of last week had continued to hold.
Ceasefire has been on in Monrovia for the past few days in keeping with the agreement to resume peace process.
He urged the negotiators to be tolerant of one another and appealed to them to observe a cease-fire pact they signed on 27 December last year.
Fighting has taken place in several other regions despite a ceasefire agreement signed last October by more than 20 Somali factions and the country's powerless interim government.
ELDORET, Kenya (AP) - Somali warlords and regional leaders endorsed a peace agreement Thursday that calls for a cease-fire and a new system of government for the troubled country.
Since the ceasefire was proclaimed, more than 300 U.N. observers have been sent to prepare for the referendum.
The announcement follows conflicting reports from the U.S.-led coalition that a cease-fire had been reached between Kurdish forces and troops deployed by Iraq's central government.
Yesterday evening, the so-called recontras announced a unilateral cease-fire and requested assistance in evacuating their wounded, one week after the Church announced its peace plan.
"To encourage the process of dialogue ... an indefinite ceasefire has been ordered and takes effect from 0000 hours, Sunday, Oct. 25," the group said in a statement.
Late last month, Mr. Johnson's faction and Mr. Doe's group announced that they had reached a truce, and Mr. Johnson said publicly that Mr. Doe was no longer his main adversary.
It is hoped that the ceasefire, declared by the rebels at President Museveni's request, can be built on to avoid further skirmishes and instead work out a negotiated settlement to the crisis.
More than 145 people were killed before a ceasefire took hold 12 days later.
Fighting between government troops and the LURD rebel forces had sent tens of thousands of people fleeing Monrovia's suburbs before the ceasefire was announced Wednesday by West African mediators.
A ceasefire between the warring factions was still holding on Tuesday, three days after it took effect.
The upsurge in fighting left west African mediators, who had got the belligerents to sign a truce last Tuesday, absolutely helpless.
The western campaign came after fighting between government troops and northern-based rebels shattered an Oct. 17 cease-fire being monitored by a 1,000-strong French force.
The cease-fire agreement calls for the government and opposition forces to stay where they are.
The cease-fire between Israel and Hamas that's kept things quiet for most of the past week is due to expire today.
'Glimmer of hope' for Ukraine after new ceasefire deal Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine agreed to a deal offering a "glimmer of hope" for an end to conflict in eastern Ukraine, but the United States and NATO said further intense fighting on Thursday ran counter to the spirit of the accord.
A ceasefire deal was agreed this week between rebels and Taylor's government, setting a 30-day deadline for talks on a comprehensive peace deal and a transition government without Taylor.
A cease-fire took hold after only a few days, but the group broke off negotiations for a lasting peace with authorities from the government of President Vicente Fox in 2001.
Jan. 12: President Carlos Salinas declares cease-fire, ending open fighting after at least 145 deaths.
He did not indicate the length of the cease-fire, but Ugandan state radio also announced that an accord had been reached.
Rebels say they only signed the ceasefire agreement after getting assurances Mr. Taylor would step down immediately.
A ceasefire was called in 1999, but fighting resumed in 2004.
The combatants signed a ceasefire accord last summer in Lusaka.
The two sides managed to broker a ceasefire.
Philippine cease-fire MANILA, Philippines -- The nation's new president said today that she will order a cease-fire with separatist Muslim rebels in the southern Philippines in an effort to boost peace talks.
That led to 12 days of fighting that claimed more than 145 lives before a cease-fire took hold.
A cease-fire took hold 12 days later after about 145 deaths.
Both Khartoum and the rebels have agreed on a humanitarian cease-fire in the province of Bahr el-Ghazal to permit delivery of relief but sporadic fighting has continued.
A statement announcing the three-day humanitarian ceasefire was released in New Delhi where US Secretary of State John Kerry is meeting Indian officials.
LURD said in a statement it had declared the ceasefire "with due respect to the international community and humanitarian concern", adding it would fully cooperate with peacekeepers.
A five-day cease-fire between Israel and Hamas was extended another 24 hours this evening.
"Both parties have signed the truce," Kenya's special envoy to the peace talks, General Lazaro Sumbeiywo, told AFP here on Tuesday.
Fighting died down in Monrovia after the November ceasefire, but the warring parties have been unable to agree on how to disarm their forces and withdraw from strategic locations.
Last week the belligerents in the 19-month conflict renewed their commitment to peace and signed a ceasefire agreement that came into force on Friday.
Khartoum reciprocated by declaring its own ceasefire.
Following two weeks of sporadic combat, a cease-fire took effect and there has been virtually no military activity by the EZLN since then.
The possibility of fighting should continue to diminish, in fact it has already reduced considerably since the cease-fire agreement was reached.
Since then, the Government of Niger, with U.S. encouragement that included a conflict negotiation workshop facilitated by the U.S. Institute of Peace, pursued several rounds of peace talks with the MNJ and other rebel groups, resulting in a de facto ceasefire, weapons handovers, and an executive order providing amnesty to rebels and those who supported them, including members of the Nigerien Armed Forces.
Last month, a brief statement purporting to be from La Familia Michoacana said the criminal organization was declaring a one-month truce.
The prime minister said a ceasefire that came into force last weekend was holding and expressed hope that the conflict will be solved through negotiations.
In March 2006, ETA declared another cease-fire, which it ended in June 2007 as a number of bombings and assassinations continued.
Acting together the U.S., France and ECOWAS have convinced the Government and rebels to accept a ceasefire and continue to discuss the situation."
The cease-fire takes effect at noon on Thursday and covers the entire country, Africa's largest.
The fighting, which was confirmed by United Nations peacekeepers sent to help end a brutal 10-year-long civil war, has continued since Sunday despite a renewed ceasefire agreement between the rebels and the Freetown government last week.
The two men finally signed a cease-fire and both sides agreed on certain points, including a cease-fire and also an end to verbal aggression through the media.
We [ARS] announced an agreement be reached and cease-fire implemented.
"It [a ceasefire agreed on Sunday] is holding and looks to be more serious than previous attempts to halt the fighting," a local journalist told IRIN by telephone from Mogadishu on Monday.
The truce was mediated over the telephone late Wednesday with the help of Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati of Iran, according to the ITAR-Tass news agency and the Azerbaijani Mission in Moscow.
A federal official warned that the move could threaten the 11-day-old cease-fire in Croatia.
Syria truce frays BEIRUT: Syria's four-day-old ceasefire appeared to be quickly eroding yesterday.
In 2003, partially as a response to the threat of militants infiltrating from Pakistan, India started to build a fenced border with Pakistan after reaching a ceasefire agreement.
For that reason, Israel's Security Cabinet unanimously rejected a U.S. proposal for a ceasefire on Friday, though Israel agreed to a 12-hour pause for Saturday.
Sporadic fighting has continued around the country despite the cease-fire agreement signed in November by the faction leaders during the first phase of the peace talks.
Friday's incident was the first major attack by the guerillas since Indian Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee last month extended a unilateral ceasefire against them, AP said.
Reactions All sides, including the government and the rebels, greeted the signing of the ceasefire agreement with mixed feelings.
The blue berets arrived here that same year after the U.N. brokered a ceasefire, with a brief to organise a referendum for self-determination of the local population.
The new ceasefire calls for "the immediate cessation of hostilities" and the disengagement of all forces from a 30-kilometre (18-mile) corridor to allow the deployment of UN peacekeepers.
HAVANA, Mar 02, 2006 (DJCS via Comtex) -Colombia's second-largest rebel group announced a cease-fire for this month's congressional elections, the group's military chief, currently in Cuba, said Thursday.
But in 2002 the Norwegians coaxed the two sides in the island's civil war to the negotiating table where they brokered a ceasefire that for the first time really looked like holding.
A cease-fire calling for a transitional government without Mr. Taylor has been holding since last week, but humanitarian conditions in Monrovia are worsening for the more than 200-thousand people left homeless by the latest rebel offensive.
The talks resumed Oct. 15 after government forces recaptured Torit, and both sides signed a temporary cease-fire agreement that is supposed to last as long as the negotiations continue.
(AP) ASIA SRI LANKA: CEASE-FIRE'S PROSPECTS -- The government's information minister, Aruna Yapa, said that a one-month cease-fire declared by the Tamil rebels, to begin tomorrow, ''could be a productive step.''
---NEW DELHI - A pro-Pakistan Kashmir militant group has unilaterally declared a three-month ceasefire and expressed its readiness to talk with the Indian government, Press Trust of India (PTI) said.
Sporadic fighting has continued around the country despite the cease-fire agreement signed in November by the faction leaders during the first phase of the Eldoret talks.
But the Tigers are furious over the worst clash between the rebels and government forces since they reached a cease-fire a year ago.
Judge Bomani further explained that such actions had now caused others to ask themselves why rebel groups that are fighting the Burundi government should be pressurized to declare a temporary cease-fire while the politicians who had attended the peace accord and subsequently signed the agreement are not showing serious commitments in the implementation of the agreement they signed.
Under a peace deal signed last month, rebels and government fighters were supposed to observe a truce but there have been numerous violations and both sides appear to have staged battles in order to scare off civilians and loot.
Under the cease-fire, the rebels "will suspend offensive military actions, sabotage and actions of force to obtain finances," the ELN said in a statement sent to news media.
The rebels called a truce which, until now, has been largely holding.
[The Guardian, 9/29] Sept. 30: PKK leaders extended for another month the ceasefire declared on August 13, but did not back down from any of their previous conditions, namely that the Turkish government release imprisoned Kurdish politicians and cease military operations against the group both inside and outside the country.
The UN mission in DRC, MONUC, has announced at least three ceasefire agreements in the last few days, but the fighting has continued.
In exchange, the rebels promised to disarm and the United Nations was invited in to help implement the cease-fire.
The truce, which came into force at 07:00 GMT, was agreed last week with the mediation of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, OSCE.
A cease-fire and political agreement reached last year raised hopes for peace, but the process was dealt a setback Tuesday when rebels pulled out of talks on military reductions.
Yemen: Cease-fire SAN'A, Yemen -- A senior Yemeni official, Deputy Interior Minister Lt. Gen. Mohammed Abdullah al-Qawsi, on Friday accused northern rebels of violating a cease-fire agreement hours after it took effect, killing a soldier and wounding another in an attack on a police station.
The Polisario has scrupulously observed a ceasefire ever since, despite Morocco breaking its promise to allow for a UN-sponsored referendum.
UNITA, which operated as a rebel movement for over 30 years, signed a ceasefire with government in 2002 after the death of its founder, Jonas Savimbi, who was killed by government troops.
Morocco and Polisario have each accused the other of trying to pad voter lists to swing the balance in their favour in the referendum, which should have been held in January 1992, six months after a U.N.-sponsored ceasefire ended nearly 16 years of conflict.
The declaration of a ceasefire and a decommission pledge earned the factions a second 'relocation' zone, this time in the south of the country, where fighters would be granted immunity from prosecution while talks were in motion.
A ceasefire has been in effect there since Saturday.
In 1984, President Belisario Betancur, a Conservative, negotiated a cease-fire with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and the Democratic Alliance /M-19 (M-19) that included the release of many imprisoned guerrillas.
In the early years of the Troubles, he joined the leftist Official IRA, from which the militant Provisionals split in 1969, and which declared an early ceasefire in 1972.
Though a cease-fire ended fighting between rebels and government forces after a few days, the Zapatistas have refused to agree to a lasting peace.
Wapakhabulo said Sunday that Uganda had decided to withdraw its troops because it wanted to minimise loss to civilian life and concentrate efforts on the goals enshrined in the Lusaka ceasefire agreement, signed last year to end the fighting in the DRC.
The talks began Oct. 15 amid optimism and the Somalis signed a cease-fire agreement on Oct. 27.
Martin, do people there think the cease-fire will actually last the three days that it's supposed to?
The ceasefire under the UN resolution went into effect at 8 a.m. (0500 GMT) on Monday.
Two weeks ago ETA issued a landmark ceasefire declaration that ended their 38-year battle to carve out an independent homeland comprising the Basque-speaking regions of Spain and neighbouring France.
"For over a year, a monitored ceasefire is in place," he said.
Rebels of the Northern Front 3-80, the last remnant of the U.S.-backed Contra rebels who fought the former Sandinista government in the 1980s, declared a cease-fire this week and told Roman Catholic Church officials they were prepared to lay down their arms following heavy casualties in recent battles with the Nicaraguan army.
The agreement with the group called Northern Front 380 calls for a temporary ceasefire and was signed before Catholic Church and international observers on Thursday in Matagalpa, 80 miles (130 km) north of Managua.
The cease-fire, to last three months, was declared at the start of the rainy season, which also lasts until mid-October.
Leonard Nyangoma, head of the National Council for the Defence of Democracy (CNDD) and its armed wing, announced the 11-day cease-fire in a Christmas and New Year's message.
All sides signed a cease-fire agreement in 1999, but all have since violated it.
West African mediators have secured a truce from Taylor and rebel foes who punched into the capital at the weekend, sending tens of thousands of terrified people trudging deeper into a city without enough food, water or shelter.
The workers were killed after months of relative calm at the start of the deployment of UN observers and military personnel to guard them in monitoring a ceasefire agreed to by all parties in 1999.
President Clinton vowed to veto the GOP measure, which the Senate has yet to act on, calling it a boon for insurance companies that would not help the most needy or guarantee a benefit through the government-run health care program for the elderly.MORE NEWSTruce in Lebanon BEIRUT - Hezbollah's guerrilla leader said in remarks published yesterday that a ceasefire is in effect in southern Lebanon but that it will not last if Israel violates the border.
The talks have put into effect a 30-day unconditional cease-fire agreement.
More than 145 people were killed before a cease-fire took hold 12 days later.
A ceasefire to end the 12-month-old war was signed on July 10 by six nations fighting in Africa's third largest country, but internal divisions prevented the rebel groups from ratifying the deal and heavy fighting has continued.
While the maras declared a ceasefire two years ago, the violence has hardly died down, according to experts.
The truce signing will pave the way for the deployment of international peacekeepers and direct talks between the Kinshasa government of President Laurent Kabila, and political and military groups which tried to overthrow him.
Shortly afterward, the two sides agreed to a cease-fire while negotiators tried to reach a permanent settlement.
All parties to the conflict signed a renewed ceasefire agreement last week.
We're on the story and I have to say, this cease-fire comes as Condi Rice is arriving in the region today.
Immediately thereafter, the government announced a unilateral ceasefire, holding out the olive branch to all those rebels that were willing to surrender.
Although Kabila and the rebels have accused each other of violating the ceasefire deal that went into effect on September 1, there has been a substantial reduction in fighting.
At Monday's session, African leaders on all sides of the war recommitted themselves to a ceasefire and called for the United Nations to send in troops.
A ceasefire order made by regional leaders and due to take effect at midnight yesterday was ignored.
Several ceasefire agreements brokered during the last six days by the UN observer mission MONUC have been violated, as was a ceasefire brokered by the UN Secretary General Kofi Annan on Thursday.
The Zairean radical opposition in Kinshasa led by Etienne Tshisekedi sponsored yesterday's parliamentary motion of censure against Kengo, which also called for a cease-fire and talks with rebel leader Laurent Kabila.
However, armed fighting only lasted for days until the group agreed to a ceasefire with the government.
In response, Uribe said Monday he has ordered the military to take unilateral ceasefire to facilitate the hostage release.
ADDIS ABABA: Ethiopia officially accepts a ceasefire plan proposed by the Organisation for African Unity (OAU) to end its war with Eritrea.
The AUC, which declared a cease-fire when peace talks began, has said its pledge to disband fully by the end of 2005 could not be met for political and logistical reasons.
Both sides accepted a truce in principle last week, but the fighting continued.
Before her appearance, Ukraine and pro-Moscow rebels signed a ceasefire agreement in Minsk, raising hopes for an end to the five-month war.
Ndombasi said a cease-fire to end the more than 10-month war in the DRC was signed in Lusaka over a month ago.
The rebels quickly settled into a tense cease-fire with the government.
The bloodshed and subsequent recriminations reflect the enormity of the challenge in peace talks that began in Kenya on October 15 and led to a ceasefire signed on October 27 by militia bosses who have flourished amid the chaos of war.
Earlier this month, the SPLA declared a partial cease-fire in the south to facilitate the transport of relief to civilians.
MR. BOUCHER: They -- parties, the government, the LURD, the other rebels have agreed in Accra that there should be a ceasefire and there should be a comprehensive arrangement that would involve a political transition that Taylor would not be part of.
"The 2002 Nuba Mountains cease-fire and the reduction of hostilities during negotiations enabled people to begin to patch the social and economic fabric of their lives.
The new cease-fire took effect at midnight on Thursday, local time, immediately after the old cease-fire expired.
So far the ceasefire signed in December by the government and the main Hutu rebel group, the Forces for the Defence of Democracy (FDD), is a dead letter.
A tense ceasefire is now in force.
Later Monday, the Centaur Bloc announced a unilateral ceasefire in its struggle against the Casanare group -- miltary sources said combats between the two groups in the past year have killed 600 people and forced thousands to flee their homes.
On Tuesday, he agreed to a ceasefire with the rebels, which was supposed to lead to an end to his rule.
It is to be hoped that the recently signed ceasefire agreement in Addis Ababa will end the fighting, and pave the way for healing, reconciliation, and recovery.
1945 - Truce is declared in Greek civil war.
KONCULJ, Yugoslavia: Ethnic Albanian rebels in south Serbia sign a ceasefire with Belgrade.
The situation continues to change by the hour, but Nkunda's declaration of a temporary and conditional ceasefire offers a momentary window of opportunity.
The now-extended ceasefire was agreed in the second phase.
Fighting continues despite a cease-fire agreement signed last year.
The truce marks the culmination of torturous peace talks which have dragged on haltingly for two weeks.
Rebels have said they need to find out more about a ceasefire deal announced at the weekend by U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan.
A ceasefire was signed but the violence has threatened to reignite.
They were confronted by government troops and an estimated 145 rebels, soldiers, and civilians were killed, before a cease-fire was signed.
They said the meeting in the capital Freetown was intended to shore up a ceasefire which began on Saturday in the savage nine-month-old conflict.
A senior TNG delegate confirmed a truce was part of Saturday's agreement, adding in remarks to Reuters he hoped all participants would sit down and sign the accord later on Sunday.
The unilateral cease-fire will begin today as the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Adha gets under way, according to Ahmed Deniz, a spokesman for the Kurdistan Workers' Party, which has bases in northern Iraq.
But fighting resumed, before another truce was agreed to "avoid a humanitarian disaster."
On Friday, President Abdurrahman Wahid's government entered into a cease-fire with rebels in the northwestern province of Aceh, which also wants to break away.
The main rebel group however declared a unilateral ceasefire on Friday to alleviate the plight of the city's war-battered citizens, tens of thousands of whom are living rough amid a crippling shortage of food, potable water and medicines.
After holding their breaths for one long month, during four weeks of fighting and uncertainty, the people of Cote' d'Ivoire - and the millions of immigrants who have chosen it as their adoptive home - breathed a sigh of relief Thursday night, when the ceasefire was agreed.
Deli finally agreed to sign Monday's truce after protracted talks with the MPIGO and French military peacekeepers, and fresh assurances from ECOWAS.
At least 15 ceasefires have been agreed and abandoned in the past four days.
[DS, 1/21] The Lebanese army opened fire on Israeli war planes for the second time since a UN-brokered ceasefire ended the 34-day war in July 2006.
The plan calls for the truce to start within 24 hours and for a joint military commission to administer the accord and oversee a standstill of all fighters.
1994 - The worst of the Bosnian war is over for the battered city of Sarajevo, where a U.N.-brokered cease-fire goes into effect.
It would include protective troops for a corps of 500 military observers to monitor a cease-fire agreement signed last summer between the main groups engaged in the conflict, which has drawn in several African nations.
Unanimously adopting resolution 1304 (2000), the Council called on all parties to the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement of 10 July 1999 to respect the demilitarization of Kisangani and the city's environs.
A cease-fire with government forces quickly took hold, but there has since been sporadic violence between rebel supporters and other Indian groups in southern Mexico.
A cease-fire was agreed to last month and more advanced talks were scheduled to resume on Monday.
The final agreement, signed in Nairobi, had called for a ceasefire, demilitarisation of Kampala, integration of the NRA and government forces and absorption of the NRA leadership into the Military Council.
They agree to a cease-fire.
Following two weeks of sporadic combat that left some 200 dead, a cease-fire took effect and there has been virtually no military activity by the EZLN since then.
Fighting with the government lasted only 12 days before a ceasefire took hold.
The limited ceasefire was first called in August 1998 to allow relief supplies to get through to hunger-stricken areas, but both sides have accused the other of violations.
[END ACT] A cease-fire agreement signed last week called on Mr. Taylor to step down to pave the way for a transitional government without him.
Although the FARC have declared temporary cease-fires before, around Christmas and elections, this would be the first time they've offered to indefinitely lay down their weapons nationwide since the 1980s.
Indonesia Reports Aceh Cease-Fire Indonesia's government said it would sign a cease-fire agreement with separatists rebels in Aceh this month but conceded it is only the first step to ending bloodshed in the province.
Instead, with one eye on the safety of the upcoming polls, talks have begun on Ijaw demands and since Tuesday a shaky ceasefire has been holding.
37); and whereas it is therefore not obliged to establish, at this stage in the proceedings, whether the oral ceasefire negotiated between the Parties' military commanders on 28 April 2011 did or did not cover the area of the Temple of Preah Vihear; 55.
A group of West African leaders brokered the cease-fire, and that is a place to start.
"We've been for peace ... Today we're declaring that we're in a ceasefire," Francois Rucogoza, the rebels' executive secretary told journalists in the Ugandan capital Kampala, speaking in French through a translator.
The offensive by the National Liberation Forces (FNL) rebel group is threatening the groundbreaking but now delicate cease-fire agreement signed last year.
The United States strongly supports the cease-fire signed earlier this month, the president said, addressing a group representing American investors in Africa.
Fighting has repeatedly taken place in several other regions, despite a ceasefire agreement signed last October by more than 20 Somali factions and the country's powerless Transitional National Government (TNG).
Text of report by Nzau Musau entitled "Media owners accuse Ndemo of hardline stance on gag law" published in privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 13 November Media owners are now reading malice on the part of the government as it re-drafts the media regulations following a cease-fire ordered by President Kibaki earlier this year.
They have also agreed to extend a ceasefire deal.
To this end, I will like to congratulate the RUF for declaring a two - month cease-fire so as to permit the holding of these negotiations in the best conditions possible.
Although the warring parties signed a ceasefire agreement last month, Ugandan troops have not left yet.
A ceasefire, currently monitored by French troops, has been holding since it came into force last week.
Museveni's comments came as MONUC, the UN observer mission in the DRC said it had brokered a ceasefire to end the latest clashes, which began on Monday.
The ceasefire took effect on Wednesday.
The U.N. force began deploying in November 1999 after the war's main belligerents signed a cease-fire, Toure said.
Sporadic fighting has continued around the country despite the cease-fire agreement signed in November by the faction leaders during the first phase of the Eldoret talks.
He blamed the rebels of breaching a ceasefire signed last month.
Sporadic fighting has continued around the country despite the cease-fire agreement signed by the faction leaders at the Eldoret talks.
The ceasefire, which was due to begin on Tuesday, was also reportedly breached in the southern city of Taiz, where two people were killed by shelling on Wednesday.
29 May 2013 00:51 Reuters News LBA English (c) 2013 Reuters Limited TEGUCIGALPA, May 28 (Reuters) - Two of the most violent gangs in Honduras announced a truce on Tuesday under a church-brokered drive to stem a tide of violence that has turned Honduras into the world's most murderous country.
The ceasefire would take effect at midnight on Saturday (2200 GMT).
Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko's office says he and Russian president Vladimir Putin had agreed to the cease-fire following a phone call.
After 12 days of fighting, a cease-fire was negotiated that remains in effect.
The violence came as the prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, said India's ceasefire in Kashmir could continue after Ramadan if Pakistan created the right conditions, the Press Trust of India reported.
They quickly settled into a tense ceasefire with the government and since then their movement has largely been non-violent and has focused on Indian rights.
It is a demonstration of Uganda's commitment to a successful implementation of the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement signed in July 1999, said the statement.
"We deplore this apparent violation of the ceasefire signed on 27 October in [the western Kenyan town of] Eldoret, which reportedly has resulted in at least 18 deaths," he told IRIN.
A guerrilla war with the Polisario Front contesting Rabat's sovereignty ended in a 1991 UN-brokered cease-fire.
A shaky ceasefire now holds between Aideed and Ali Mahdi, but fighters are looting relief food supplies in many areas and aid workers say the security situation is deteriorating.
Both sides have also agreed a ceasefire, but each side has also recently traded accusations about violations by the other.
In 1984, President Belisario Betancur, a Conservative, negotiated a cease-fire with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and the Democratic Alliance/M-19 (M-19) that included the release of many imprisoned guerrillas.
Now this is coming after a cease-fire agreement signed between the Pakistani government and the Taliban last week.
The government and rebels signed cease-fire accords in 1991 and 2001, but hit-and-run attacks blamed on rebel holdouts to the peace deals still occur.
HRW also cited the paramilitaries for violating the cease-fire they announced at the beginning of the negotiations with the government.
In a statement quoted by Portuguese news media, rebels said loyalist forces had stormed and destroyed a bridge near the central town of Bafata after the truce was agreed upon.
The group called a ceasefire in 2011.
There they enforced a ceasefire and helped implement a peace process in the civil war that saw rebels chopping off the arms and legs of civilians to capture the world's attention.
Immediately thereafter, the government announced a unilateral ceasefire, holding out the olive branch to all those rebels that were willing to surrender.
The convoy is taking advantage of a ceasefire offered by the authorities and agreed on Friday by army rebels who appear to have the upper hand in the country's four-month-old civil war.
Last Wednesday, the government said it had begun a ceasefire, apparently accepting a truce with the rebels.
He even announced a limited ceasefire to facilitate the process.
A ceasefire was called Tuesday.
The truce is the first the government of President Laurent Gbagbo has actually signed with rebel groups.
All belligerents but one rebel party recently agreed to pull back their troops from the frontline in line with a ceasefire agreement signed last year but repeatedly violated since.
